        ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
               (FOUNDED: 1-4-1963)
                    (Astronomy Made Easy)

       By Jyoihisba Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI



                           JULY 1963


                          CONTENTS

 1.     What Follows?                                        1
 2.     Latitude and Longitude of different places           6
 3.     Twelve Signs of the Zodiac and their influence...   33
 4. Sun in various houses                                   50
. 5.    Moon _                                              SO
 6.     Can we dodge fate and bo fortunate                  71
' -7. Monthly Prediction (English)                          77
   ^.
  5. Monthly Prediction (Tamil)                             00
                WHAT FOLLOWS?

     ASTROLOGY is to guide one about what is to
come in the future without resorting to any guess or
surmise. This science is intended to foretell in crystal
clear manner anything, and everything that is to
happen. Therefore this astrological magazine follows
the above principle and desires to mention those which
are to appear in the succeeding issues.
      The Editor has given us to understand that he has
 proposed to publish cogently articles on Astronomy
 and Astrology in about 32 to 48 pages a month;
 monthly predictions will cover about 16 pages in
 English and 16 pages in Tamil and between 16 and 32
.pages may be allotted for various articles from learned
 scholars.- What articles have been received from others
 and in which monthly issue they will appear will be
 published a month or two in advance. The topics that
 will be explained by our Professor, the Editor of this
 magazine, in the subsequent issues are given'below :—
    l; The Zodiac: The Tvvelve Sighs. Their Names
and Symbols. The Planets: Their Names and Symbols.
     2.   Constellations :, Nakshathras.
     3. The Sighs and .their rulers. Benefics and
Malefics.   Signs; Movable, Fixed, Common, Fire,
Earth, Air, Water ; male and female, Kendhras and
Konas, succedents, - Cadeht Houses,- Northern and
Southern signs. Equinoctial signs. •> Fruitful signs.
Barren' signs. Mixed sighs, Signs of' short ascension,
Signs of long ascension; Bicorporal signs: Human
signs: Signs of • Voice : Mute signs: Exaltation:
Dignity, Moolatrikona: Friends, Enemies; Neutral;
Temporary friends and temporary enemies.
                              2

     4.    Table of Houses:
      5. To find out the cusps of houses : To calculate
 the exact position of Planets for a particular moment
 of birth or of incident.
      6. To erect charts by Western or Sayana system.
 Fortuna, Equinox, Precession of Equinox. A table as
 a ready reckoner for each year.
     7.    To erect maps by Nirayana system.
     8.    Navamsa and its use.
     9.    Rectification of Birth time.
    10. Relative disposition among two Planets.
 Between one Planet and Ascendant or Meridian or
 Fortuna.
    11. Aspects: Western and Hindu.        The Orbs,
 Guide to aspects. Translation of light, applying and
 separating aspects: Refranation: Dexter and sinister:
 Conjunction : Parallel: Square: Opposition : Sextile,
 Trine etc.
    12. Ududasas:       Vimsodhari, Ashtodhari, Kala-
 chakra etc.
     13. Each Rasi; Each Planet: Mythology : Astro-
 nomy ; general features, characteristics, weakness,
 disease, professions; inanimate objects; metals;
 colour; direction; number; countries and towns
 indicated ; political, economical, produce, etc.
     14.   12 Houses:. Their indications.
     15.   Planets in each sign.
     16.   Planets in each house.
      17. Aspects between one Planet and the other.
Sun to Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc. Moon to
                            3

Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc.       Also     aspect   among
lords of each house.
   18.   Progression.
   19.   Transit, Western and Hindu.
   20.   Ashtaka Varga.
   21.   Shadbala.
   22.   Personality.
   23.   Longevity.
   24. , Health ; Disease *, General constitution.
   25.- Finance, Fortune, Self acquisition, Worldly
possessions.
   26.   Brothers and sisters.
   27.   Short journeys, publications - agency.
   28.   Education.
   29.   Vehicle, conveyance.
   30.   Landed property : Buildirfj* - Mother.
   31.   Speculation: Lottery, Races, Betting.
   32.   Servants: Pets ; Debts, Enmity.
   33. Marriage:        Married   Life: Lawful; Cross:
Divorce.
   34.   Partner ; Business ; Litigation.
   35.   Will: Legacy.
    36. Father: Religion; Philosophy; Higher Edu-
cation ; Competitive Examination ; Overseas : Foreign
Travels.
   37.   Profession: Honour: Backbiting : 111 repute.
                               4

    38.   Friends: Hopes and Desires.
      39. Treachery: Imprisonment: Expenses: Hospi-
 tal isation.
    40.   Horary Astrology; detailed.
    41.   Market forecasting.
    42.   Mundane astrology.
    43. - Medical astrology.
    44.   Stellar astrology.
     45. Improved Methods of Prediction by the author
 after much of research done in Modern Astrological
 Research Institute.
   46. Why Stellar Astrology is .to be followed and
 Western aspects are to be applied in all cases.
     47. The    correct   time     of   ;birth—rectification#
 pre-natal.
    48.   Research done on Pre-natal Epoch.
    49. Which Panchanga is to be followed, Thrik or
 Vakya ? Which Siddhantha is to be adopted?
     50. Fortune on Chahdrashtama            day—How      to
 reconcile.
   51. Marriage, appointment, promotion, success
in competitive cxamiuations during the. periods of
As.htama Sani and also during the seven and half years
Saturn. Explanation.
      52. When Jupiter • transits in the .11th house,
. money is lost. When it transits in the 121^ it is
  regained. How ?
   53. Expects a promotion on a particular day but
on that day his maid servant delivered a child and there-
                            5

was no promotion.    Why this alternative ? and similar
rpiestions.
    54. Combinations of Planets and varieties of
professions.
          Which Ayanamsa is correct? To establish it
by illustration and convincing proofs.
      Any problem which the readers may suggest and
any other subject as it appeals'to the editor, will be
published as separate articles. These will be useful to
the students and scholars. If any reader wants to have
any doubt cleared, he is welcome to write to the Editor.
Even if there .is difference of opinion on any matter,
the .Editor in vites such, so that he can try to convince
the 1 reader by explaining them more clearly with
examples and illustrations. Therefore the Editor craves
indulgence of the readers for'the short-comings if any,
and solicits their favour of making any suggestion they
may think proper, with a view to its being inserted in
future issues.
                           Members,
       Modern Astrononical and Astrological
                Research Institute,
                     Madras.
              Twelvdi Signs of the Zodiac
                           and
                     their influence
                 WHAT IS WHAT ?
    The circle of space surrounding the earth and
measuring 360 degrees of celestial longitude is referred
to as the Zodiac. It is an imaginary belt in the Heavens
about "15 degrees wide in which the planets travel. It is
the path in which the Sun appears to move around the
earth, called Ecliptic..
     The Zodiac, is divided into 12 equal parts. They
are 1.-Aries—Mesha: 2. Taurus—Rishaba. 3. Gemini—
Mithuna. 4. Cancer—;Kataka. 5. Leo—Simha. 6. Virgo
—Kanni. 7.- Libra—Thulatn. 8. Scorpio—Vrischika.
9. Sagittarius—Dhanus. 10.        Capricorn—Makara.
II. Aquarius—Kumba. 12. Pisces—Meena.'
     Each of these is a solar mansion otherwise called a
sign or a rasi and each extends to exactly 30 degrees..
Each sign has derived its name from its resemblance
to the group of constellations found in and around the
Zodiac.
    ' General description of the influence of each sign is
 given in this chapter. The physical features, charac-
 teristics, marks, health, finance and profession indica-
 ted by each sigh "are dealt with in detail. Planets
 occupying these. signs will-modify these results. Only
 when there is no planet in the sign, can the
 effect of these be noticed without any deviation. The.
.qualities of the sign will be manifest, all the more, if
 its.lord were also to.be posited therein. Like a coin'
•which has two different sides, each sign presents two
 characteristics—good and bad. Depending on other
 factors, these characteristics will be modified. Benefics
 like Jupiter—Guru, Venus—Sukra, in the Ascendant—
 Lagna—mitigate the evil and offer more of aggreeable
 results. Malefics like Saturn/and Mars in the Ascen-
                            34

dant spoil the good nature and bring out the latent bad
qualities into action. Similarly, the general physical
features indicated by each sign may vary from the
normal, due largely to the planets occupying the
sign. If, for example, Jupiter is in the Ascendant, the
tendency to overweight becomes perceptible, especially,
during Jupiter's periods. Saturn in the Ascendant
makes one emaciated. If one is already stout and
plumpy during Jupiter's period he becomes thin during
Saturn's period when it runs. Venus indicates pleasing
countenance; Moon gives medium height and pale
complexion and makes one plumpy. Mercury increases
height with prominent features; Mercury shows much
of activity whereas Saturn denotes a lazy and lethargic
condition. Mars develops the muscular system ; Sun
indicates a dignified appearance. Uranus conduces to
the length of.the limbs and good height and offers
physical peculiarities and causes eccentric action,
Neptune generally shows some defect in the system.
Saturn governs hair. Much hair growth for those who
have beneficial Saturn rising in the Ascendant is indica-
ted. ' Thus it will be seen that the planets have
considerable effect on the physical and mental make-up
of the native.

                    ARIES—MESHA
     This sign refers to people born :
     1. in the sign Aries as Ascendant or
     2. in the Nakshatras Aswini or Barani of the first
        quarter of Karthikai or
     3. between 14th APRIL and 13th MAY.
     Aries—Mesha—is the first or head sign of the
Zodiac. It commences at the vernal equinox and extends
upto.exactly 30 degrees. (Sun'during its course from
South to North crosses the celestial equator and enters
into the Northen Hemisphere. This intersecting point
                           35

is called the vernal equinox.) According to theNirayana
system, the vernal equinox or the beginning of Mesba
(i.e. first point of the Zodiac) is considered to be ever
constant and is said to coincide with the fixed star
Aswini, zero degree; and the stars Aswini, Bharani and
the first quarter of Karthikai always occupy Mesha or
Aries. In the Sayana system, however, the retrograde
motion of the Zodiac (at the rate of approximately 50
seconds per year) is taken into consideration and so
nowadays Sayana Aries commences at around the 7th
degree of the Nirayana Pisces—Meena. The sun crosses
this first point of Sayana Aries (Nirayana Pisces, Meena
7 degrees) which has gone by retrograde motion by
nearly 23 degrees, on 21st March every year. After 71
years, the sun will cross this point on the 20th March;
in 142 years on the 19th March; in 213 years on the
iSth March and so on. At that time when according
to both the Sayana and Nirayana systems, the initial
point of commencement of the Zodiac coincided, the
sun reached the vernal equinox on 14th April. After
about 21,000 years also, the sun will reach the vernal
equinox on 14th April.
      A"s Hindus follow the Nirayana System and I per-'
sonally advocate the stellar theory, all the delineations
given below'refer only to the Nirayana System. Hence
for people born either in Aries as Ascendant or Moon
or Sun in Aries in Aswini or Bharnai or Karthikai first
pad a, the following charactcrstics will be applicable;
i.e., (a) Aries Ascendant (lagna), or (b) people born in
Aswini Nakshatra or in Bharani. Nakshatra or in Kar-
thikai Nakshtra first pada, or (cj people born between
14th April and 13th May any year..
     Aries is an equinoctial sign. It is fiery and hot by
nature. It is termed bestial and sterile. It is a mova-
ble or a cardinal sign. It is said to be masculine or
positive and is of short ascension.
      Aries is generally symbolised by a Ram, being in
nature rash, combative, lascivious, springy and hardy.
It is called an Oriental sign denoting the beginning of
the Right Ascension as it represents the gate of Gold
on the east. Aries represents head and face in- the
human body. It is ruled by Mars. Sun gets exalted
in this sign, Saturn is debilitated, Nvbereas Venus is
said to be in its fall in this sign, as it is the„7th sign
opposing Libra owned by Venus.
     Physical appearance: Persons born under, this
sign are of middle stature. They possess a lean and
muscular body. They are neither stout nor thick.
Their complexion will be ruddy and they have a fairly
long neck and face. Their head will be broad at the
temples and narrow at the chin. They have, bushy
eyebrows, eyes grey to greyish brown with sharp sight.
Their hair will be wiry, colour varying from dark to
sandy. In adult age they go bald at the temples. - If
malefics are posited in Aries as Lagna, there will be a
mole or scar on the head.

           Mental tendencies : As Mars rules this
■people born in Aries will be ever active and ambitious.
 They are bold and impulsive. Tf the ascendant is afflic-
 ted they will be rash and aggressive. Beneficial aspects
 give them confidence and courage. They always aim
 high and are ever, enterprising.-
     . Characteristics : Aries, being the first sign of the
zodiac, persons born under this sign will desire to be at
the head of all affairs. • They do not relish suggestions
from others but act only according to their own
judgment. They do nqt "like subordination but wish
to be'the leaders in thought and action. They are best
fitted to guide, control and govern others if the ascen-
dant receives beneficial aspects. Being a positive sign,
it gives determination and force of character. A'rians
                             37

  act quickly with unbounded self-confidence. They
  have much of executive ability and uncompromising
   spirit.. Being bom in a movable sign, they will not
  hesitate to change whatever they dislike and whenever
  they want. They cannot wait patiently for opportuni-
  ties to come but will go out and create them to fulfil
  their desire. If they do not come out sucessful easily,
  they face the difficulties with greater strength till they
  realise their ambition. As Aries is a fiery sign, their
  mind will be pregnant with ideas and their desire will be
  to execute them at once. They are best fitted to deal with
 any situation or emergency. They can never sacrifice
-their personal, desires for others. If the sign is
  afflicted, the Aries born will.be drawn into a quarrel
 and if they do not fare well, they become fretful and
  boisterous. They will try to stick to their own views.
 They will hot see other's opinion but rather they will
 binder-estimate others. They are over-optimistic and
  •wildly enthusiastic and so generally they overshoot the
 •mark. They will over-trade in business. They are not
 the people who look before they leap. Nor do they
  mark time till their ideas are crystallised. Consistency
  is not their virtue. They will take up fresh enterprises
  before completing those on hand. Even if they occupy
 a. humble and subordinate position, they will try to be
 Jat the head of some branch of their work. They are
,-never tontent to remain just one in many. Very
  quickly they scheme, plan and execute with the ultimate
 object of directing others.- If Aries is affiicted, the
  natives' enthusiasm is converted into fanaticism, strong
  -will into stubbornness and boldness, into foolhardiness;
 liberals' are turned into radicals. They are ardently
  demonstrative and . passionate. , They cannpt tolerate
  criticism and they try to be independent. Evil planets
  in the ascendent make-them aggressive^"proud, arrogant,
  headstrong, hasty, quarrelsome and truculent. They
 will be egoistic with the ' I' predominating in them.
                           38

They are tenacious and purposeful.     Their accent is ore
the ends and not on the means.
     Health and Disease: Generally good health will
be enjoyed by the Arians. They will have enough of
immunity fronij and resistance to, infectious diseases as-
Mars rules the sign; but they are prone to minor
injuries frequently and also to serious accidents occasio-
nally, particularly to the head. Wherever there is an
element of risk, the Aries born should exercise care,,
specially when -they drive, cars or work with sharp
instruments, etc. Both men and women born in this
sign will be fond of sports because they are capable of
sudden spurts of energy. They are better fitted for
games lasting only for a few minutes than for matches-'
lasting for a long duration.
     Aries indicates the head. The sixth house there-
from is Virgo which denotes digestive system and also
the nature of ailment to the Aries born. Therefore
they are* liable to suffer from headaches, burns,
inflammatory diseases, affections of the brain,.neuralgia,
coma, high fever, colic pains, paralysis, apoplexy,
pimples, insomnia, ringworms, migraine, smallpox,
malaria, affection of the brains, thrombosis, etc.
     They require plenty of rest and sleep and also good,
food with plenty of vegetables. They have to relax,
and control their feelings. They should avoid worry,,
excitement and anger. As a patient, the native becomes
impatient of sickness and tries to have a quick recovery..
They have to avoid stimulants and take less of meat.
     Aries indicates' the bones of the skull and face
except the nasal one. It also represents the muscles,
like occipitals, deprimens articularum, buccinator,
frontals, attolens, temporates and zygomaticus. Arteries
like internal carotides and temporal carotidcs are also
shown by Aries ; so also the cephalic veins.
Finance and Fortune: Though people born in this sign are not
for amassing wealth, yet they have a desire to earn much and
spend likewise. They may lose money through impulsive
purchases and rash investments. They have no mind to save
but are always extravagant and careless. They always think
only of today and never of to morrow. Evil planets in Aries
show that they will start any enterprise in a (lash which will
end in a crash. They never balance their budgets. On a later
date, they will realise that such extravagant and rash action is
not helpful. The best remedy for them is to think before they
act. They will dole out all advice to others in the matter of
spending and saving, but will not follow it themselves.
           Romance and Marriage: Arians are extremely frank
and enthusiastic even in love. Their good nature and charm
attract the opposite sex. They do not dream but take practical
steps. They want freedom, adventure in love and everlasting
affection which is somewhat difficult. If the dominant nature
is a little softened, they can be really happy. Further, they
should not be impatient, rash and emotional. They should
avoid roving eyes on others but stick on to the old lover who
would keep them delighted.
           The Aries wives (ladies born in Aries) will be witty
and clever conversationalists, ambitious and independent,
social and unconventional, efficient and generous. If Aries is
afflicted, she will have pride not only in her appearance but
also in the domestic environments. She will always speak high
of her own family as being much superior to others. There is
no person she values more highly than herself and her family.
Jealousy and pride are her outstanding weaknesses. She will
always expect her husband to attend on her, speak high of her
and never praise 'anybody- else especially in her presence. She
will try to lead all
•social gatherings. She will prove to be a good host.
'She will love only such a man whom she can admire.
 She will prove to be a good wife throughout life
 if she is allowed to keep a dominant hold over the
•family affairs. If perchance an Aries lady marries a "
 simple man, she will overpower and subdue bim in all
 activities.- For Aries ladies, strong-willed, masculine
 men will suit best. Since these ladies will be a little
-aggressive, it is for the husbands to be patient and
 tactful in dealing with .them, so that harmony may
 prevail. These ladies despise anything mean or under- ^
 handed. They arei inclined to be critical and occasion-
 ally overbearing. Aries women'become very romantic
 and are given to sudden spurts of enthusiasm.
     Husbands born under Leo or Sagittarius will be
able to cope with the Aries ladies- Tibra borns will
tone down the fiery nature of the Aries natives and
purchase peace at any price.
       Aries husbands (gents born in Aries) will prove to
  be very desirable partners because most girls generally
-look for people with leadership and initiative. They
 "usually choose beautiful, clever and good wives. The
  partners have to adjust themselves to avoid .dishar-
  mony. .Whenever Aries horns happen to be in a'mood,
  they prefer to be generous and bountiful. They are
  often liberal to a fault as they would foolishly spend
 away money immediately after receipt. Without any
 planning and without having money on hand, they will
 .make impulsive pufchases'on credit. - Therefore those
  who marry Aries horns, should. always save a portion
  of what the husbands give . them. Wives of Aries men
 •should try to be popular with their husbands' friends
 and have a modern outlook.
     Domestic Euvironments: People born' in Aries
Jove their home and family. They will always try to
                             41

 be in the midst of their family members. They try to
 keep the house neat. They are excellent hosts and
 "keep good company. They never lack in friends who
 will pay visits often.and keep them cheerful.
        Profession: Aries indicates such of the. profes-
   sions which Mars rules. If the planet which denotes
   one's profession by owning either the 2nd or the. 6th
 '■or the 10th house in one's horoscope, occupies. Aries ■
. in Rasi or lord of the 10th house occupies, in navamsa,
   Aries or if Aries happens to be the second or the ^sixth
   or the tenth house and the lord -Mars is "very strong,
  then any of the following will be "the. profession of the
   native.
      Army officers, captains in the army or in the navy,
 soldiers, defence department, surgeonsr butchers,
 barbers, police, A. R. P. officials, chemists, bailiffs,
 thieves,, smiths, tailors," cutlers, bakers, armourers,-
 watchmakers,' dyers, cooks, carpenters, gamesters,
 gunners, physicians, boxers, workers in iron and steel,
 officers of law, firemen, guards, detectors, mechanics,
 wrestlers, workers in lime. and brick kilns, dealers in
 sports goods, red articles, workers in factory, industry;
 mills, etc.
       (Mars strong- and occupying the 10th house of
  Aries as lord .of 2 or 6 or TO indicates defence depart-
  ment. Sun . conjoined. with. Mars denotes, medical
  department in the defence services or a surgeon. Saturn,
  the chief governor for longevityi in Aries shows that
  he may be a.butcher &s- he has to be slaughtering.
  Saturn is for removal or putting an end to the growth
  and Venus is to beauitfy; hence Saturn and . Venus in
  Aries show that the native may be a barbet or will
• have a saloon. Jupiter, weak, occupying Aries shows
  that one will be in the Police department in the crime"
  branch. Venus also in- any manner connected with
                            42

them shows that one will be in the traffic police depart-
ment, as Venus denotes vehicle and traffic. Saturn
being of a hidy nature indicates along with intelligent
Mercury that the person will be in.the C. I. D. depart-
ment. Saturn and Mars with afflicted Mercury make
one a thief. Sun and Mars produce goldsmiths. So
also Jupiter and Mars with Venus makes one a dealer
in jewelleries. Venus denotes dress;, hence Venus
and Mars are responsible for tailors. Sun and Venus
produce boxers,, wrestlers^and dealers in sports goods.
Mercury produces mechanical engineers. Thus one
has to fix the profession. These will be dealt with in
detail when profession is taken up separately.
     Places : Aries denotes the ground for the cattle
to graze, sandy soil, hilly ground, unfrequented
places, hide-outs for thieves, a little raised plateau,
etc.
     Within the house, Aries indicates the covering,
ceiling and plastering, stables for small cattle, pieces "of
land recently ploughed, etc.
     Direction:   East.
   . Products : Bombs, fireworks, heavy acids, rails,
tractors, buses, motors, machinery, iron and steel,
reclamation of slums, waste-lands, etc., and the crops
cultivated in such areas.
     Countries and Cities: Britain, Galatia, Germany,
Lithuania, Lower Poland, Palestine, Denmark, Syria,
Judia (Lebanon), Burgandy, Damascus.
    Verona, Naples, Florence, Capua, Marseilles,
Burnswick, Padur, Saragossa, Leicester, Cracow,
Utrecht, Madras.
     Handwriting; The handwriting of the Aries born
will be stiff and rigid with sharp angles and narrow
                           43

hooks. The words will be generally slanting to the
right though occasionally they may be upright. As
they write, the lines will be ascending and the words
will be connected in groups of three and four. The
strokes of the words will be thick and they will be
separated lavishly. They invariably draw a long and
thick line after signing their signature.
     Sun in Aries: The Sun is between the Earth and
the sign Aries. The Nakshatras Aswini,Bharani and
the first quarter of Karthikai will be on the back-
ground. The Sun is said to be exalted here as it blends
well with the intrinsic nature of the sign Aries. As
Mars is the lord of the sign, the results of the Sun in
Aries will be similar to the results of Sun and Mars
put together. Aries is the most strong and beneficial
position for the Sun which gives life to all. It is a
perennial spring of vitality ever gushing forth. Abun-
dant vitality gives the energy and power to act and
work ; if intelligently used, one will do anything and
there is nothing impossible to Aries born.
     People with Sun in the Ascendant in Aries will be
of middle stature. They are strong and well made with
robust health. Complexion will be good. Their eyes
will be full though they may have vitamin A deficiency
and suffer from night-blindness.
     Sun produces people of noble disposition with a
dignified, enthusiastic and self-assertive personality.
They . will have a sincere and courageous disposition.
They delight in warlike deeds and fight to the last till
they come out victorious. They are formidable to
their enemies. They will take interest in the govern-
mental and pioneering projects. They are independent,
gallant and courageous. They will never waste time in
idle talks. They are people to act as they desire with-
out caring for the consequence.
       Moon in Aries: Shows that the people born in
 Aries as Lagna with Moon in it will be of middle
 stature with graceful and magnetic personality.- They
will grow plumpy. Their face will be round and the.
hair will be light brown.
      They will be courageous, practical, independent
and masterful." They have strong imagination. They
will have self-assertive qualities. They do not wish to
be held to any one line and be ordered about by
others. They have humanitarian disposition. : They
are always keen and alert to the needs, of the public.
Equally they are interested in their home. If Moon is.'
afflicted here, they become- short-tempered, rash and
aggressive. Good aspect of Mercury to" Moon in Aries
makes one intuitive, receptive, versatile and imagi-
native with" confident mind. They will be fond of
short-travels. They will undertake independent fresh-
enterprises, changing off and on; yet they will he-
enthusiastic in every line of business they do. Always
they are to hew out a path of their own and try to bo
prominent by leading others. If Moon is- afflicted by
Saturn, there will be some danger of drowning. _ If
Venus afflicts, trouble through women is threatened..
Luminaries (i.e.. Sun or Moon) getting afflicted show-
changes of occupation and position.
     Moon gives thin body in youth. -As age advances,
one will put 6n weight and become stout. They are
active and self-opinionated. They are ambitious of
honour .but not very fortunate to have it easily. . They
will have the mind to speculate and also over-trade.
  . Mars in Aries: -Produces'people of middle size
with large bones well-set. They may have wrinkles in
the forehead. Their lopk. will -be fierce and eyes
reddish. Complexion will be sunburnt. There will be a
mole or scar above the nose in the forehead. -The
mole will be a little red in colour. Mars accentuates.
                            45

   the Aries character. It gives a dctermioed, resolute,
   forceful, • and a daring disposition.    They will be
   enthusiastic and inspiring. They never care for any-
   body or for anything in the world due to their self-
   confidence. They cannot conceal anything but they are
   frank. • They are very independent and act on impulse
   hastily without mindingthe "consequence. They possess
   a keen sense of enjoyment. They have the love
   for games, sport, pleasure and adventure. They never
   like limitations and restrictions. They prefer to be
   care-free. They work in their own lines, explore and
   pioneer in all new lines of thought and activity. They
   are selfish. They will have their desires fulfilled
 . whether they receive assistance from others or not.
   Even when there is much of impediments, obstacles and
   hindrances and also when they are discouraged by
   others, they carry on their work till they complete it:
- Mars in Aries;increases the vitality and offers much of
   immunity. Yet they are liable to danger by fire,
   surgical operations,-high fevers, inflammatory com-
   plaints, accidents, injuries, wounds and scalds. There
   may be trouble through the head, face and eyes.
        Mercury in Aries :. It produces a thin and middle
  stature with oval face and prominent features. The
  hair will be light brown and curled. Complexion is-
  dull.'-
         These persons will be self-assertive though
   reasonable and dexterous. They are impulsive and
   fiery, quick in thought and spflech. They will prove
   to be very good in arguments. They will exaggerate
 • things, and tactfully come out- successful. They are
   fond, of reading, writing, publishing and be in the
   midst of writers and literates. . They find pleasure in
   changing their profession. If Saturn afflicts, they
   lack mental continuity, order and method. Generally
   they will be restless. Good aspects to Mercury tend
                           46

lo give a keen, alert and scientific mentality. It also
-produces clever people who are capable of working
■independently and invent.
     Jupiter in Aries: People born in Aries with
Jupiter rising at the time of birth will be of middle
stature with ruddy complexion, oval visage, piercing
eyes, high nose and brown hair. In youth they may
have excession pimples on the face.
       They will be very obliging, with noble ideas and
 loving disposition. Their friends will always gain
through the Aries borns. ' Jupiter overcomes the
 martian spirit and they therefore despise discord,
 disharmony, dispute and contention. They will be
 progressive, ambitious and reasonable. Due to their
 truth, honesty and integrity they come out successful.
 They are most reliable and hence capable of holding
 positions of trust and responsibility. They never
tnisuse their powers. They will have strong liking for
 literature, economics and philosophy.        They will"
 follow some respectable calling in life. They will
 never suffer from labour trouble as they have the
 charitable and benevolent inclination to realise, defend
 and support their cause. They have the mentality
 which is wise, profound and idealistic. They are not
 only capable of earning a large income but, at the
 same time, will also raise the standard of their
.subordinates.
     Venus in Aries : Those who have Venus in the
Aries Ascendent will be of middle stature, with good
complexion, light hair and slender body best fitted for
dance. Venus gives a pleasing and dignified persona-
lity. There will be a mole in the cheek or chin,
adding beauty to the person. If afflicted,.it causes
much pimples and skin eruptions. Saturn afflicting
Venus and conjoined with the nodes (Rahu or Kethu)
                           47

spoils the appearance due to skin eruptions.       Mars
afflicting causes poxed face.
       Venus makes the native popular and gives many
  friends. People born with Venus in Lagna in Aries are
  fond of travel, music, drawing, painting, dance, scul-
  pture, decorative art, singing, poetry (Venus is called
  Kavi) romance, drama, cinema and social functions.
  They are affectionate and passionate. They are attra-
  cted to. friends of the opposite sex. Marriage may
 ■come early or they may have a hasty settlement and
 celebration. They will be generous and free in gifts and
  pleasant expenses, purchases of costly ones to enjoy
  life. If Venus is strongly afflicted, they are improvi-
 •dent and unfortunate. They will not stick on to one
 appointment nor will they continue long at any one
"branch of business. They are apt to change often for
■ease. They have cheerful, amicable and enterprising
  disposition, anxious to gain the admiration, goodwill
and esteem of others. They have aesthetic tastes and
a desire for a beautiful environment. They are people
  for the most diplomatic attitude. They are not people
 to offer to those who have much to offer. They are
so jovial and the competition betvyeen their lovers will
 be likej:ompetition between students. ■
    . Saturn in Aries : Saturn in the lagna in Aries
denotes one moderate in stature with dark complexion,
full eyes, high forehead, dark hair and spare body. As
Saturn is debilitated here, ■ there will not be much of
whisker and beard. The voice will be strong.
     They will be determined, resolute, and ambitious
for grand success. They are given to boasting, The
danger in them is that they are the retainers of anger. ■
They will be vindictive. They cannot be much relied
upon if Saturn in Aries as Lagna is afflicted by another
malefic. They are prosperous through industry and
                            48

 perseverence. They are contemplative ; they have good
reasoning faculties. They lose their temper easily.
 They are never averse to argument. They are not
 promised with happy married life for a fongnumber of
"years. Either the partner will be jealous or there may
be difficulty through marriage or the. partner may pass
away at adult age. These people are rarely reserved.

      Rahu in Aries: Increases the height of the native.-
If it receives good aspect from benefics, the native will
be bold and courageous. With go-a-head spirit he will
undertake any enterprise and come out successful. All
those mentioned for Mars will apply to Rahu ia
Aries.

      Uranus in Aries: Increases the height of the-,
 native. The appearance will be thin. They will have:
 curled hair. Uranus gives love-for independence and
 freedom. The nature of the people will be enthusiastic
 and pioneering- They will have the ambition to lead,
 in the humanitarian and advanced undertakings. Their,
 temperament will be magnetic, romantic and active.
 Uranus increases the mental vigour and produces much
 activity. A few may appear to be eccentric. They
 have originality and inventive ability. They deal with
"machinery, electric instruments, etc., and they possess
 mechanical ingenuity. ' They are always fond of travel
 arid frequent change of their residence. On some
 occasions they will be abrupt, brisk, brutally blunt and
 mannerless. They will disregard tact-and self-control-
 Even when one is very young if one were to be in the
 midst of elders he will offer his opinion on an impulse
 without any intention.' He cannot control himself.
So also a few subordinates will behave. Disputes and
estrangements are quite common. Some children run
 away without informing the parent especially when.
 Uranus is afflicted.
                           49

       Neptune in Aries: Healthy appearance of Aries
' will be missing. The eyes may seem to have a dreamy
  look. The complexion will be pallid.
      Their disposition will go from one extreme to the
 other. Neptune will either lift a person to the heights
 or cast him down. If afflicted, the person will be an
unscrupulous liar. Neptune makes one ready to under-
 take anything for notoriety. If well aspectcd, these
 people will take leading parts in secret activities and
 societies. They can push forward whatever they want
by fair or foul means. They have the love of
travelling. They will have some mystical experiences
in their life. Neptune gives original ideas with regard
to religious or spiritual matters. It makes the native
popular-by giving him an incentive towards a national,
political, or public career, if Neptune receives favour-
able aspects from Jupiter. If afflicted, Neptune gives
peculiar feelings. They will be inclined to some habit
for the gratification of the senses, such as smoking,
excessive use of stimulants, etc. They should be careful
whtl^e using narcotics, anaesthetics and. Some medicines.
Theyl.will be allergic to some food or medicine.
                         SUN
     The resuUs of the Sun are not always uniformly
the same in all the signs of the Zodiac and in diflferent
houses, just as we feel the hotness of the Sun, varying
when it occupiesdifferentpositions in the sky. Suppose
one takes a torch and switches it on, it'throws its
original light but if one places a coloured glass in bet-
ween the torchlight and the observer, the colour of the
light gets changed, depending on the interposed colour
slide. When one looks at a dancer in the daylfght, she
appears natural and the colour of the dress is real.
But if coloured lights are thrown on her in the stage
she and her garments appear in different colours.
Similarly, the Sun has its general nature unaltered if it
occupies its own sign, Leo (Simha) and if it is rising
in the east at the time of the birth of a native ; but if
it occupies any other sign of the Zodiac or any
other house except the ascendant or lagna, its results
get modified. Therefore it is absolutely essential
include in one's prediction which solar mansion
and which lunar mansion (constellation) is occupied by
the Sun and in which house it is, when countedpFfr0ni
the ascendant of the native. One may be                 in
Aries (Mesha), or Taurus (Rishaba), or G/enrini''
(Mithuna) or any one of the twelve signs, as ) tone's
ascendant. Then, one is to-divide the Zodiac i^to 12
houses counting from the Ascendant or Lagna. ^Mote
in which house the Sun is placed in the chart. If ti. he
birth takes place during the first two hours counted
from the time of sunrise, the Sun will be in the Ascen-
dant or Lagna; between 2 and 4 hours (roughly) after
sunrise, it will be in the 12th house; between 4 hours
and 6 hours in the Jlth house; at noon, roughly,
the meridian ; between 12 noon and 2 P.M. in the 10th
house. Similarly for people born between sunset 6
P.M. and 8 P. M. in the 7th house, and between 4 A-M.
                            51

and 6 A.M. in the second house. Therefore, for people
bom on any one day, the sun will be occupying the
same sign for all of them but the house it occupies,
when counted from Lagna will vary according to the
time of birth on that day.
     Hence one is to take into consideration in which
sign and in which house the Sun was at the time of
birth of a native.
      If SUN OCCUPIES FIRST HOUSE, it gives free,
frank and generous disposition. He will be ambitious,
humane and outspoken. He will have strong moral
 nature. Mercury in close proximity to the Sun gives
quick perception. Character, confidence and courage
to complete one's undertakings are offered by unafflict-
ed Sun. Aspiration for power and authority, good
health, strong constitution, immunity, resistance against
infectious diseases are also attributed to'Sun. If one
runs the period of the beneficial Sun for 6 years (accor-
ding to Vimshottari dasa), one will have soundness and
solidarity in his business, security of service and
permanency in profession, assistance from Government
officials and administrators, honour, grand success in
all ventures, fulfilment of desire etc. His ideas will
be noble, and action- will be successful and magna-
nimous. The result will be that he will rise far above the
sphere in which he is born and hold positions of trust:
He will have good influence and occupy a responsible
position in the office. But if the Sun is afflicted, for
example, by Mars, he will be short-tempered, rash and
ag;ressive and he cannot maintain good health. He
may meet with sun-stroke or accidents or suffer from
acute fever and other ailments. If Saturn afflicts
the Sun,, it reduces his recuperative power. Uranus,
forming evil aspects with the Sun, causes sudden fever
baffling even the medical attendant and defying correct
diagnosis. It also causes sunstroke, accidents etc.
                           52

Sun afflicted by Jupfter portends losses and reversals.
Venus afflicting Sun causes sorrow resulting from the
sickness of wife, especially the pains before and during
her monthly periods. Also Venus denotes disappoint-
ment in domestic circle and loss of favour etc. It is
difficult to escape ill-repute. Moon, afflicting the Sun
in the first house, will not allow the native to make
much progress in the world. He will be vacillating,
obstimate and unsteady. He will ever miss the bus and
will not utilise opportunities to entire-satisfaction. He
is susceptible to anxieties and wprries. Thus one has
to modify the results while judging a horoscope.

      Sun in the Second .House: The second house
 denotes the right eye of males and left eye of females.
 Eyesight depends on the aspect that Sun receives. Good
 aspects promise good sight like the elephant, the eagle
 and vulture. If afflicted, the native may have to put
 on glasses and also change glasses during the sub-period
 of Sun. As the second house indicates money that had
 been lent, wealth, etc. and as Sun is the chief governor
 for the father of the native (Pithrukaraka), it shows
 wealth through father, realisation of the entangled
 amount etc. Sun being the lord representing the
 Government, the native will have self-acquisition by,
 holding Government posts or some responsible job with
 security of service. He will be able to work hard,
 please his superiors, gain their good will, backing -
 and favour. The native, with the Sun in this position,
 will exert more and will, in equal measure, be regarded
 by persons in high position. Mars forming aspect with
.Sun makes him extravagant and over-liberal. He will
 be inclined to generosity in money matters, charity,
social functions and sports. He will be lavish. The
 aspect of Saturn, on the other hand, steadies him,
 makes him economical, prudent, sincere, and chari-
 table. Mercury and Sun in the second house makes
                             53

  "him a good orator. Favourable aspect from Mars makes
  him an able debater and enables him to beat his oppo-
  nent squarely. Venus and Sun in the second house in a
  common sign and forming evil aspect of 22£ degrees,
  indicates second marriage. (Second House denotes
  family, i.e., increase in the number of members of the
  family by marriage, birth of children etc.—Venus is the
  chief governor for wedding. Generally, seventh house
  denotes first wife. Therefore second house from Lagna
  will be the eighth house counted from the seventh house.
  Longevity or death are judged from the eighth house.
 Therefore the span of life of the first wife is to be
 judged from the eighth house to the 7th house, i.e. the
 second house counted from the ascendant. Generally,
 second marriage comes up after the demise of the first
  wife or distress to .her by way of divorce etc.) Hence
 ■evil "aspect from Venus to Sun in the second house
  denotes the probability of the second marriage. If
  the aspects are good. Sun will prove to be beneficial by
 bringing fortune to the native. He will win others'
.favour by his power of sweet speech. Sun also shows
  that he may support others and his relationship with
 Iiis family will be cordial. He will be successful in trade.

     Sun in the Third House : An Upachaya Sthana;
houses 3, 6, 10 and 11 are mentioned as improving
 houses, a mental house and cadent. The person will be
xesourceful, ambitious, creative and noble. He will,
always have the desire "to help others. He will also
receive, assistance from others at a moment's call. He
will be bold and courageous. Sun makes him adven-
turous and enterprising.        Third house indicates
 younger brothers and sisters. If Sun receives good
aspects, the native will have younger brothers born
during the sub-sub period of Sun, and whenever Sun
period repeats, his youngsters will have advancement
in their life also. In the physical body, the third
                           54

house represents the neck, arms and ears. He will
have a mole in one of these parts of his body. He
will be successful in editing and publishing, will make-
short journeys frequently, and will earn public popula-
rity. But if the Sun is afflicted by Saturn, there will
be confusion of the mind, depression and failure in
the subject's enterprises. Good aspect of Jupiter (Guru)
promises respect, goodwill and beneht from relatives
and neighbours. Mercury shows successful travels for
business, while Venus denotes journeys for pleasure^
sight-seeing etc. Sun strong in the sign, impels him
to uplift and benefit colleagues, assist them mate-/
rialiy and offer them strong and good advice. Mars
afflicting Sun brings trouble with some of his relatives
or neighbours through his proud, arrogant, and
haughty temperament. Moon and Mercury threaten
discredit through correspondence, vain promises, false
reports, anonymous petitions, talebearing, backbiting
and by breaking agreements once arrived at. One's
own religious duty is indicated by the third house. So
Jupiter, forming favourable aspect with Sun in the-
third house, denotes that the native will be law-abiding.
God-fearing and religious-minded. Hewill be super-
stitious and observe omens etc. Sun afflicted by Mars,
and Saturn show partition of property among brothers
and sisters. Sun conjoining with Venus in the third-
house denotes the native's fortune to wear diamond '
necklace or a diamond ring. If Mars also aspects, the
diamond may be synthetic.

     Sun in the Fourth House: Hindus are of strong,
opinion that the fourth house denotes the mother of a
person, whereas the Westerners in view this house
indicates father. To our knowledge, no one has so far
rebutted, on the basis of research, the Hindu assertion
that the 4th house represents mother. But the resear-
ches conducted by the Modern Astrological Research
                           55

Institute, Madras, applying stellar astrology (otherwise
called Nadi Grantha) lend support to the view held by
our ancients. The thesisjon^thissubject will be published
when 4 THE HOUSES ' are taken up for discussion.
      Sun in the fourth house which is also called
4
  Nadir' will be below the earth. Fourth house indi-
cates whether the natives will regularly attend school
and study whereas the third house shows             one's-
inclination to study a particular subject. It is not
uncommon to come across a person who had the desire
in early days to become a physician but who, by force of
circumstances, had to take to engineering or some other
profession. One might have had a liking for science
subjects, but had to take up history instead. The
desire is indicated by third house, the actual study is
shown by the fourth house and higher studies by the
ninth house. Therefore unafflicted Sun gives profes-
sional study and success in his school career, especially
during Sun's periods.       Ambition will be realised.
Hopes and .wishes will materialise. In declining years
(as 4th house shows one's last stage of life), there is
the chance for honour, reputation, name, fame and
popularity. Fourth house has connection with one's
property, house, land and other permanent possessions
whereas' the second house shows movable property.
If Mars also lends assistance, he will have-landed
properties, from his birth and will also acquire fresh
ones by his efforts, as Mars is the chief ruler of
land, othexjvise called 4 Bhoomikaraka'. Venus for-
ming good aspect with Sun in the fourth house blesses
one with vehicles, conveyance etc., as Venus, (Sukra)
is Vahana Karaka and 4th house indicates conveyancc-
Moon forming favourable aspect with Sun gives good
health and long life to his mother, as Moon denotes
mother which is shown by 4th house also. Saturn
forming beneficial aspect with Sun in the fourth house
is a strong indication, that the native will invest on.
                             56

   mines and mine products.          Uranus forming good
    aspect with Sun indicates service in the Railways or
    any' other transport and also unexpected success in
   .the professional career. Neptune indicates secrecy and
    some psychic experiences in the house. Uranus and
    Sun forming strong and beneficial aspects will enable
    the native to discover some drug of great super-natural
    efficacy. Saturn allows one to hoard money. If Sun
    is afflicted, one will meet with many obstacles. If he
    drives his car, he will have to stop at each and every
   •automatic signal. If he constructs a house when he
    gets men to work, he will find difficulty to obtain
    materials. When he has materials, men will not be
    available for work. That is to say, there will be too
 - much of impediments and hindrances. -He cannot
   ■enjoy much progress in his life. There will be troubles
    and sorrows-through parents.'
         ■ Sun in the Fifth House: Fifth house indicates
    chanting of vedic hymns. Therefore, he will be
     religious minded and will have initiation of mantras
     by 'a wise Guru, if Jupiter forms beneficial aspect with
. 5un in the fifth house. (Whether one attains Siddhi
     and enjoys the benefit out of it or not is shown by the
     tenth house.) Prayer by incautations is indicated by
    the strength of the fifth house, whereas the fruits of
    •such prayer are indicated by the Karma house i.e., the
    tenth. Saturn aspecting Sun favourably in the fifth
  •liouse, is propitious for concentration and meditation.
    As the fifth house denotes pleasurable pursuits, if Sun
     is devoid of aspect from Jupiter but is favourably
    ;aspected by Uranus, Mars and Venus, one will indulge
     in such acts. Depending, upon the'sign which Sun
   ■occupies, the nature of the pleasurable pursuit is to be
    judged.      Mercury and Venus show amusements>
     frequent visits to cinema, opera, drama, music, dance
     etc. Depending on the bouse which-Sun owns, gain or
    Joss by such pleasure is to be judged, Jupiter and Mars,
                           57

forming good aspect with Sun in this house, promise
that the native will be a.sportsman and will be a leader
in out-door games. Fifth house indicatesgain through
speculation, investment, children and places of amuse-
ment. One can expect to have successful and honoura-
ble attachment. Sun does not favour one to have a
big family whereas Sun in this house receiving evil
aspects from other planets threatens danger to a child
during their mutual dasas and Bhuktbis. Often Sun
under unfavourable aspects indicates paucity of
children.and also difficulties during delivery. If Sun
is in a barren sign and if it is not favourably aspected
by the benefit Jupiter, the native will have no child..
Further, Sun receiving, evil aspects indicates loss
through speculation, gambling and betting. There may
be troubles through courtship.. Jealous rivals may do
harm. Love affairs will cause sorrow. There may be'
•difficulties through children. All these are to be expec-
ted during the joint periods of Sun and the planet or
the planets"which form unfavourable aspects with Sun.
Those planets which form harmonious aspects give
desirable results. In Ultra Kalamritham, it is said
that fifth house indicates gain of property through
wife's luck. It is true, because the 7th house denotes
 the wife; the. 5th' house from Lagna is the 11th
 bouse to the 7th. 11th house denotes net profit and
 fortune. Therefore, if the fifth house is occupied
by Sun and is well aspected, the person will have
 fortune through wife. Also, it is to be said that the
■native will gain through bis partner in business.
      Fifth- house indicates advisers, ministers etc.
Hence Sun receiving very strong and favourable aspects
"from Mars" and Jupiter promises success
 career and may even make him a minister,
 shows intuition. Unafflicted Sun,
foresightedness. Even if he acts without
 merits and demerits of a problem,.he will be consi-
                            58

dcred to be wise, as Sun favours him with success.
Jupiter and Venus forming very good aspects make the
native rich as he knows the way for earning and saving.
Sun in the fifth house receiving favourable aspects
from the iord of the 9th house and Jupiter makes
one a learned and wise philosopher.
      Sun in the Sixth House: This is also a cadent
house. It is a favourable house Upachaya Sthana. His
strength will be less, but the result will be favourable
in any competition. Always, the 7th house indicates the
opponent. Sun in 6 to the Lagna or ascendant means
that Sun is in the i2th house to 7th i.e., 12th house to the
opponent. Twelfth house denotes losscsand reversals.
Therefore Sun gives loss and failure to the opponents
and the native having Sun in 6 cpmesout victorious.
      As regards health. Sun being the ruler' of vitality
and the sixth house being that of disease, Sun in-the
sixth-house will weaken the constitution 'resulting in
frequent indisposition, indifferent health and suscepti-
bility to infectious .deseases. Good aspect to Sun
enables the person, to observe hygiene and take pre-
cautionary measures to safe-guard bis health, and
thereby avoid ill-health. Mars forming harmonious
aspect with Sun in the 6th house adds strength to the
constitution. If Sun is afflicted and the sign, in which
it is, happens to be a cardinal or a movable sigh,
the native will suffer from nervousness, biliousness,
weak stomach and chest; if it is in a fixed sign,
asthma, bronchitis, diphtheria, heart disease, organic
troubles, weak back and sides are indicated. If Sun
is in a common sign, dull liver, pulmonary disease and
chronic ailments are threatened. Functional derange-
ments and permanent injury are indicated by the
movable signs.
      Sixth house shows servants. Therefore, depend-
ing on the aspect which Sun in the sixth house receives.
                           59

one is to declare wbetlier gains by service to the native
 through faithful and able servants. Saturn afflic-
 ting Sun denotes labour trouble whereas favourable
 aspect of Saturn to Sun indicates either service in the
Labour department or employment of reliable servants.
      Sixth house indicates disease. Sun is called
Dlianvantri or the Healer, Hence Sun in the sixth
house also indicates service in the medical department.
Mars, Venus and Jupiter forming good aspect with Sun
show that one may own a chemist shop or a factory,
manufacturing drugs and chemicals,
      In Saravaly, it is said that Sun in the sixth house
increases sexual passion, popularity and prosperity.
(Probably it may be due to the fact that 6th house is
the twelfth to the'seventh house, i.e., Suka Sayana to
the partner. Twelfth house shows pleasant union with
wife; .seventh house indicates wife).
      Sixth house denotes pet animals, cattle etc. Sun in
the sixth gives the native cows, buffaloes etc., which
cannot milk satisfactorily unless Venus and Moon
favourably aspect Sun.
      Sixth house is the third house from the fourth.
Hence it denotes the younger brother of the mother;
that is, one's maternal uncle. Planets forming favour-
able aspects indicate good relationship with uncle.
Bad aspects threaten trouble and fear from one's
Dayadins (relatives). -
      Favourable aspect from Jupiter is necessary to
have overdraft accounts in the bank*; assistance from
bankers can be had during the periods of Sun.
      As sixth house indicates enmity, one is to judge
from the nature of the planet which afflicts the sun in
the sixth house, as to which relative will be inimical;
for example, Mars indicates brothers and cousins;
Venus, wife ; Jupiter,, children; lord ofnhe 3rd house,
neighbours and brothers; lord of 5, children; lord of
7, wife and so on.
                           60

                        MOON
      Id astrology. Moon and Sun arc generally mention-
 ed as planets although neither is a planet in the strict
                                              v
 dictionary sense.
      Moon is the planet nearest to the earth. It is the
 only planet in the Solar system revolving round and
 round the earth. Sun is said to be generator of power
 whereas Moon is considered as the conductor of power
 lent by Sun. Only one-half of Moon receives light
 from Sun and this portion alone gets illuminated at any
 one time. Moon shines only by the reflected light of
 the Sun.
    . The rays of the Siin reflected by the moon dispel,
 the darkness of the night on earth just in "the same
 manner as light reflected from a mirror placed in the-
 Sun removes the darkness inside the house.
       Therefore the nature of Moonlight is the same as-
  that of Sunlight but it is not self-luminous. The dis-
  tance between the Earth and Moon is approximately
  2,38,000 miles. It moves round the earth which..
1
  revolves round the Sun.
      Suppose ^ child holds the hand of its mother. Ther
 child goes around her rapidly. But the mother with,
 child makes a .big round, around a light-house. The
 child will be on some occasions in between the mother"
and the light, house. On some occasions/ the mother
 will be between the child and light house.. .f When the
 child is in the line joining the mother and the light
.bouse, the mother cannot see the light house. In this
manner, the solar eclipse is caused. But if the mother
is in between the child and the light-house, in the same
joining line, the mother prevents the light from falling
on the child. That is; the earth is between Moon
and Sun and they are.in and moon does not receive. '
                            61

light from the Sun. Thus Lunar eclipse is caused-
Eclipses are formed in this manner, whenever all the
three are in one line.
     The Moon is small in size. The diameter of the
Earth is approximately 7,800 miles whereas that of the
Moon is only 2,200 miles. No water is said to be
found in the moon. • But at the time of the Full Moon
we notice the tides rise even as high as 40 feet. Actual-
ly the ebb and tide of the oceans arc caused by the
infiuence of Moon.

      Mythology: Moon is-considered to be the Virgin
Mary of the Roman Catholics and nourishing mother
 of the heavens. She is the Luna (Diana). She is the
queen of the night. Diana is the twin sister of Apollo.
She is the Goddess.and also a huntress. She governs
chastity as well as fertility. She is the daughter- of"
Leo and Zeus and she is called by Artemis by Greeks."
That is why, it is said, that the Sun gives the spirit and
life to. all the planets and the Moon rules over the
lives of the beings on earth." Sun represents individua-
lity Whereas Moon shows one's personality. 'Moon
also represents the mother of a person born by night.
Sun is masculine and Moon is feminine.. Hence the
person born under the rulersbip- of Moon becomes
timid, vacillating, receptive and convertible'. Sun is a
fiery planet whereas Moon is.a watery one; hence
Moon is a fruitful planet.
      Moon transits very.quickly through all the twelve
signs of the Zodiac in 27 days, 7 hours and 43 minutes.
It is considered to govern our .daily happenings, making
a person feel jubilant when it transits a favourable
sign and depressing the same person when it passes in
an unfavourable. Hence it is necessary to know about
the Moon.
                            62

       Astrology: The Moon is • a nocturnal, cold,
'■changeable moist, receptive and feminine planet. The
  fourth sign of the Zodiac called Katakam or Cancer is
  ruled by Moon. This sign is just prior-to the sign Leo
  owned by Sun. ' In Hindu Mythology, it is said that
  Moon loves Rohini most. Actually Moon gets exalted in
 Taurus or Rishaba in which Rohini star is contained.
     Moon moves daily around ,13 degrees on an
Average and whenever it passes the sign Taurus, it is
■very strong. It gets verV weak and debilitated when it
transits in the sign Scorpio or Vrischtka.
      Moon governs over thciqapregnation, conception,
Tirth of child, the animal instinct, the union and the
 embryo. It also rules the infant stage of a person and
 it has a po^rful influence oii-the lives of babies.
 Afflicted Moon at the time of birth causes ailment
 frequently and does not allow it to have proper growth-
■Stomach will be upset and frequent vomiting reduces
■vitality.
      The effect of the- Moon depends on the relative
 disposition of other planets, the aspects which Moon
 receives, the sign which it occupies etc., at the time of
-one's birth.    "
       ,Moon is-a.cold planet Afflicted Moon oftenf
..-Causes cold and fever., Its. characteristic is change-,
  ability. Hence its influence is often'unsettling. If.one
     in service, his desire will.^be1 to have * frequent;
  changes. He will not .continue, to live in the same
  premises. Under some pretext "or other, there will be
■schange of residence. frequent.TYeninhis room, he will
i^efibe^aT^nging-ahd-'rearrahging-hisL^poks;__He .will,
  change the position of furniture, the curtain cloth,
  table cloth etc. Unless Saturn forms favourable aspect,
  he cannot be steady. Docs not the moon appear
  different on different days. One day it appears as the
                            63
full moon. In a week's time 'it is only half; a week
later it.is not*to be^seen Again daily, it waxes and
moves fast appearing every night in the midst - of
different constellations. Thus people born with moon,
as their ruling planet will ever be unsettled, wavering
and vacillating.
     Moon representing the mother and owning the
fourth house indicates that the person will love ihi?
country and his .home.
    Moon is called ' Mathi % the- mind. Mercur
governs intelligence. Good aspects between Moon ar
Mercury give the native fertile imagination, deep feelin
emotion etc. Adverse aspects oflfer indicisio'n^ lack
mental balance, a desire to lie and spread false rumoi
and suffering Trom'over-anxiety.            '
     Moon, receiving good aspect from              Vei
develops in the native a taste for music, art, paint
scented oils, keen imagination and love for
pleasurable pursuits,. Evil aspects portend incons
    with laay friends, female relatives etc. Excesses r
digestive, troubles. .
             Moon and Mars, when
:extreme liberality and frank nature. One" will.be
 and ^inclined to. make frequent'journeys whic1
 prove to be profitable. Adverse aspects indicaf
 the-person will-be impulsive, rash and recklef
■wilT develop strong attractions to the oppds
 causing ilhhealth and bringing ill-reputation,
 two planets govern the mbntbly course of th<
 Good-aspects. are fruitful. Eut evil .aspect
                      and _ other .troubles connect
 m ens truat ibn: --.Fupi ter-and.Mobn .in fa vour ab]
 give magnanimous idcas^hopoful^dispositi
 imagination and optimism. But if theaspcct
 the native will be reckless and extravagant.
                            65

      Saturn with its beneficial tays. tpi^Qoplmakes one
patient, persistent, steady, cautious ;afld?ever inclined
to hoard money.. The native will bq ..able to- concen-
trate. ^Unfavourable aspects depress him an'd ma'ke, him
funky ;""lhere will be fear comp.lex, inferiority cbm'pTex
and peisimis'm;, 'He cannot .concentrate, meditate etc.
UranUs3 and Mp.pn will';deVelop in tfie native a taste for
hypnotism,- mesmerism, occultism/- asVplfegy-etcri' and
will make him -independent. Adverse; aspects portend
eccentricity. He will be 'perverted and. "very hasty.
Neptune and Moon will make/o.ne prdlficient in.fine
arts,-in instrumental music, pccultis.m, spiritualism'etc.
Adverse aspects ■threaten-, him' Kvith '.neurasthenic-com-
plaints, hysteria^ insartity.incoherance ic thought^and
speech, and create in him immoral and preverse sexual
desire. Thus Moon influences the brain. It indicates
our reaction.for every result we have for the efforts we
make. ' Asrhobn governs water, the dative' will have
the desire to cross the sea, make long journeys etc.
     Moon also governs the stomach and the breasts
of ladies. , Good digestion or otherwise, beauty of the
breast and her ability to feed her own child with
 breast milk or not, depend on the aspects, which Moon
receives/ - Mercury and Sim forming good aspect gives
proper. digestion andjjssenjilation. 1 Saturn aspecting
Moon gives/very smail-bceasts. Jupiter makes them
very big. Venus, a'dds beauty to them. Mars keeps
them strong and-attractive.*         /
      Suri indicates the native's publicjife, holding .high
position with authority1 and power. 6ut moon-denotes
family life, the home and personal and. private aflfairs.
It also shows the multitude and the -masses.
  ' Moon is considered to govern 'Ap* or water
power;..:..It denotes wells, ponds, tanks, lakes, rivers,
fresH%a.ter, bays, ocean etc. . Hence it is concerned
                           66

with liquids, aquatic animals, and objects found under
water, like pearls;
    Parts of the body governed by Moon are: Left
eye of a male .and the fight eye of a female, the breast,
stomach, esophagus, uterus, ovaries, synovial fluid,
lymphatic vessels, sympathetic nerves, bladder etc.
     Diseases given bymoonare: Eye diseases, Lunacy,
Paralysis, Hysteria, Epiplexy, Dropsy, Beri-beri, Myxo-
dema, cold, cough, colic pains, worms, intestinal
defects and diseases, catamenial disorders, Tumors,
Peritonitis, Uraemia, Throat       troubles. Asthma,
Eosonophilia, Bronchitis, varicose veins, complica-
tions due to excess of drinks, Hydrocele, Dyspepsia,
Dysentry, Sprue, Scrofula, nervous debility, gastric
catarrh, cancer, typhoid etc.
     Profession : Being a watery planet, the native may
be employed in shipping department. Navy, water-
analysis or water-supply department. He may deal
in salt, fish, corals, pearls, perfumes, flower, liquids,
kerosene, petrol, milk, boilers etc. Farmers, vegetable
and fruit growers, and suppliers or dealers in such
commodities are governed by Moon. Nurses, cooks,
stall managers, launderers are also ruled by Moon.
Dealing in various articles governed by Moon men-
tioned below may also be the occupation of the people
born under the rulership of Moon.
    Products : ' Oranges, melons, cucumber, palm,
plantains, poppy, fruits, vegetables, ghee, curd, milk,
cow, sugar and sugarcane, saffron, betel leaves, maize,
nickel, silver, ever-silver, camphor, alum, horses, fish,
aquati animals, cooked food.
    Political: The condition of the mass of people,
the ladies and their societies, social functions,
marriages, navigation, shipping. River projects. Dam
                            68'

construction, bridges,' ^swjrnming pool;; agriculture,
horticulture, regulations for expansion, improvement
afi'd upTiftr-
     EG0NbMIC improvement of -shipping yards,
ports, increase of shipping .facilities, fishery, industry,
catering' departfhents,- brewries, drinks,: -dance; music,
cinema, trade, commerce, fobd materials','laundries,
                                                  1
water supply, diary farms, milk supply.
   . Places: " Indicated by Moon in India (as.- per
Brihat-Samhita) Mountains,     fortresses,  Kosala,
Bharukachche,     Ocean,   Tocharrains,    Vahavasi,
Tangana, Hala and Strirajya.
     Handwriting: As Moon is ever changing, the
native "will "write in different 'ways add shapes the same
wb'rd.s^and letters. The native will comit spfeljing'mis-
takes even when he writes simple wbrds. . He may write a
few Words starting to the right'and a few uprrghL" If
he writes letters when he'.is in a happy rhood,"iie.draws
waVy -lines "below his signature.' An unsteady hand-
writing.                               "       ~
  ,;"^Aniirials and ^irds : ! Horse, cat, dog, "mpjise,
wateNbird, duck, goose, -<ftab, tortoise, owl, oyster
etc.
     Plants and Herbs : Melon, white poppy, cucum-
ber, palm, mushrooms, algae, winter green, pumpkin,
mercury, sugarcane, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce.
  - Time: Moon controls Varsha Ruthu i.e. August
and September.
     Day: Monday is ruled by Moon.           People
born under the rulership of moon,, will have grand,
success on Tuesdays, prbmolioh be Fridays and profit
on Wednesdays; Saturdays are not favourable. Other ■
days are moderate.
                            69

    •/Number.: 2 and ,-7 -afe^ the numbers of. Moon.
-Nirfe. brings in fortune. -Six is. for reputation and
 popularity. 5 shows happyTamily life with good wife
 and gains without pains. Avoid number. 8. It is
 unfortunate.
     Colour:- White; Some.are of opinion that sea-
green;colour, is indicated by Moon.
     Gem:    Pushparagara-Diainond-All white stones.
        Prayer: Goddess Gowri. If Mars forms good
  aspect with Moohj-the native prays for .Goddess.Laiitha
 •and Kali,* if Venus aspects, Bhuvaneshwar and
  Lafcshnii; if Mercury aspects • Moori, Goddess Saras-
■ wathy; will pray for Lord Krishna if Saturn aspects
 •Moon. Jupiter's aspect-indicates Annapoorani, Raja-
-rajeswari'; Rahu- or, K'ethu-conjoining Moon suggests
 ■devils, Yiekshini etc.^especially when rhoon occupies the
  fifth house.
      Thus, Whatever Moon indicates, by its nature
 mentioned,- when one has to judge one's profession,
 one is to take into consideration the sign in which Moon
 was at the time of birth, theconstellatibn it occupied and
 the various aspects Moon receives. One can .-correctly
 find out the profession of a person if one notes the
 dasa which the person runs, its lord and its connections.
-The lord of the dasa which operates in one's life is
 more important. For instance, a person' during
 Saturn dasa was ..working in a concern dealing with
 kerosene and petrol whereas he got into a textile depart-
 ment during Mercury dasa. For, Saturn and Moon
 the liquid taken out-of•'the earth indicate whereas
 Moon and Mercury indicate textiles.
    Further, one is to consider the various aspects tc
Moon and gives his predictions. Mars and Mercurj
forming good aspect with Moon in a fixed sign show:
                          70

that one may be a Mechanical Engineerin Water-works,
orif Moon were to be in a movable or common sign, he
will be a captain in the steamer or ship. If one has
Moon and Mars forming good aspects and either is in
Scorpio, he will deal with boilers. Venus also for-
ming an aspect denotes the dealer in par-boiled rice.
Venus represents food.         Aspect from Venus to
Moon alone, shows that the native will be a dealer in
milk and milk products. If Saturn also aspects, he
 may deal in such of those materials found at the bottom
 of the sea as conch-shells. ' Mars, Moon and Sun indi-
 cate dealings in salt. Mars, Moon and Venus govern
 aerated waters. Moon, Sun and Venus indicate nursing.
 Jupiter also connected with them indicates midwifery.
 Jupiter, Mercury and Moon denote novel writings; also
 those who inspect accounts, internal auditors -etc.
 Moon in the third house connected with Lord of pro-
 fession indicates good salesman, street] hawkers etc.
 Thus the modification of other planets will help in
 selecting one of the many indications of Moon.
     Results of Moon in each house and in each sign
will follow.
       CAN WE DODGE FATE AND BE
              FORTUNATE?
                        By Punarvasu.
     (On 23—5—1063 Jyoihisha Praveena Sri K. S. Krishnamttrti
delivered a speech in the Rotary Club at Imperial Bold, Near Delhi.
The following is the extract of his speech.)

     The President, honoured guests, rotarians and
large number of friends who had assembled on 23-5-63
were thanked by Prof. Krishnamoorti on behalf of the
Modern Astrological Research Institute, which he runs
both in Madras and in Delhi. He said that it was
really an honour to this particular institute for having
given him the opportunity to be in their midst and to
address them on a subject, which is unnecessarily ridi-
culed by many, though most of them live on hopes
given by the astrologers.
     Continuing he said: "Is there any who is not.
ambitious, in his life? Everyone, whether born, a king
or a Kubera or a poor beggar, will be lacking some
thing or other.and be trying to acquire and improve
his lot further. Contentment is the only virtue which
can offer peace of mind. Unfortunately, most of us
feel dissatisfied and hence are happy. Peace is denied
due to some reason or other and most of us are
always worried. The extent of worry alone varies from
time to time.
     But whenever two friends meet, and one were to-
greet the other saying   How do you do?", generally
the reply is "Fine". Never does he mention that he
is anxious, restless or worried due to some trouble or
other which actually exists. If we consider the word
'fine' mentioned by him, we will find that it is an
appropriate and correct one. By 'fine', the friend
mistakes that the other, is in gcxpd cheer, as though his
days are:" bright and ail his'attempts are successful;
but really he is paying the " fine" for the sin's he had
committed in his previous birth.
   • The theory of Karma and re-incarnation alone can
offer a co'nvincing explanation. It is a general opinion
that everyone is the creator of his own destiny that, in
this Jife, he.enjoys or suffers according to the virtuous
deeds" done .or. sihs committed in the .previous , birth.
It will .be :pbser.ved that the inequalities iri life and: the
apparent injustices are all due to the '"native's.previous
karma and hot due to his actions in this birth.
       Are there mot instances wherein people complain
 that, to best of their knowledge, they had never thou-
-ght of hof ever done any harm to anybody in this birth,
 but yet they are facing great difficulties, trials and
 tribulations. Youngsters and people Who had not met
 with.any'disappointment or suffering in life will be of
opinion.that everything is in their hand's and they "can
 dd;oLundd as they like. They need not think of God
 ii or approach, astrologers. But only when age advan-
 ces and people are depressed due to difficulties^ they
 realise that " Man proposes, but God disposes." He
 thinks of Fate only then, and approaches any astro-
 loger, expert ot" novice, to have mental solace and
 maintain mental equilibrium.
     Astrology is the 'most convincing and noble
science based on the theory of karma and reincar-
nation. It .explains how. one is either fortunate or
unlucky in this birth according... to his or her action in
the previous birth. It also explains that even though
one may not have done evil in this life, yet one has to
suffer for. the evil already done. ■ If a man is impri-
soned, he k'ndws 'whaf crime he had' committed and
why he is suffering now. But people who have done
                           74

no evil in this life suffer inspite of their sterling
qualities and noble actions. They do not know the
exact cause thereof.
      Suppose there is a plot of land lying vacant adja-
cent to my residence; daily I throw away the refuse
from my quarters on that vacant land. _ After some
months I purchase the vacant plot. Soon after it
rains, I sow a few mango seeds. Daily I go on obser-
ving the plants that sprout. I find to my surprise
green gram, bengal gram etc., coming up in large
numbers. When I calmly sit down and try to recollect,
I understand that these grams have grown immediately
                                                            s
after the rains, because I had thrown the seeds in the
field along with the refuse before the rains, and there-
fore they have sprouted. On observation, I find that
after some weeks another rain follows and the mango
plants come up.
     The seeds, which I threw along with the refuse
prior to the rains are similar to the karma done by
me previously. The. rain may be compared to the
soul, which gets into another body, starting a new
life. The plants (green gram, bengal gram etc.)
which grew immediately after the rain are the result
which is enjoyed in this life due to the previous karma.
The sowing of the mango seed is just like the action in
this birth. Its growth after the second rain shows that
all the actions in this birth will bear fruit in the next
birth. Here, we can at least remember which seed we
had thrown already and which will grow but we are at
a loss to know what we would have done in our previous
birth. We cannot bring back to our memory where
we were born and what we did then. Ancient sages and
scholars wcll-verscd in astrology are able to give all
these particulars, which are found nowadays in a very
few genuine nadis.
                            75

     Nowadays most of us are neither anxious nor curi-
ous to know about our past life, because it will not
serve any useful purpose. But we would like to
know not only our future but also the ways and
means to overcome any difficulty which we may be
facing. Is not the sun very huge and very hot. Yet do
not a few leaves of a tree give shade and offer shelter to
us. , Does not the tree save us from the terrible hot
sun. Similarly the majority of the people, especially
the weak-minded ones ask for remedies to dodge ill
fate and make good fortune.
      Just as the knowledge of the past life and the karma
 done then does not change the destiny and is not
 really useful, the prediction offered to an individual
•may also appear to be useless if he has to submit to
 fate. It is, indeed, welcome to all if they are informed
 about their future, the various methods suggested by
 the ancient Maharish to dodge fate and to enjoy genu-
 ine good results. Those methods remove.the evil and
 offer desired results, as every action must have a
 reaction.
       Further there is no- pleasure in any walk of life if
  desirable results are enjoyed without effort or by dod-
  ging others.
       A young boy may feel very happy when he dodges
  his parents, and pleases himself by playing with his
  class mates, especially when the parents do not permit.
       How pleasant it would be for one of the young
• partners in life to be with friends and attend various
  entertainments especially when the other members
  who never relishes such a company and is out of a
  station for a short period.
       One will have greater pleasure only when the same
  result is enjoyed by dodging others, then when it comes
  naturally.
                            76

    That is why, some people always-desire to'know
the effective methods by which they can mitigate,
modify and even nullify the evil result and bring in
Good Luck.
     Luck does not mean, only coming by a treasure or
making a substantial- amount.by Way of . lottery,-prize
etc. But it alsb-includes ali. pleasant .and, desirable
results'in every walk; of .li,£e... •.
     A persott.un'ay. excavate a-well and tap .a. soft and
wholesome iyater-which' .is good :to .'taste: t But:his
neighbour ma^ make a similar attempt jri.bis 'plot and
he mayVh'ave-^'such • a brackish water, an ounce of
which canine a substitute for a laxative.. He curses his
fate and calls the other lucky.
      Two class-mates got married:,;. Onels-;-wife'was
aggressive, adamant, arrogant, argurhentatiye ahd'Very
short-tempered. Her atrocities drove the:imsband h'qw
and then out of their house. He used.:td take "shelter
in his friend's quarters to while away-Ins time-and cbbl
himself down. His friend's- wife used to talk philoso-:
phy, pity.-with him-and .pacify, the ..friend in..plight-
She was leading a very happy and harmonious'.life* with.'
her husband. The unfortunate lad thinks "within him-
self that his friend is .fortunate, whereas the evil he
did in the previous birth has broiigbt him a devil.* •
    Thus it will be seen ;that both -in minor matters
and alsb. in major problems,", one has to be lucky' to
enjoy"one'slife with" peace'of mind;. Luck or otherwise
depends on the karma done by him.--'

                      (To be continued in August issue)
        ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
                      (FOUNDED: 1-4-1963)
                    (Astronomy Made East)




                          CONTENTS
                                                       Page No.
*1.     Erection of tho Horoscopes                          1
-»2-    Table of Ayanamsa                                     4
  3.' Taurus                                                  6
 ■ 4.   Mars                                      >> .. 21
  5.    Setting Sun (Sun in the 7th House)           f -37
  6.    Moles and theirsignificanco                   ..    41
  7.    Letter to the Editor                               ":47:,.'
 8.     No more doubts                                      50
 9.     Letter to readers (Regarding SwadeSamiitran
         Weekly)                                            60
10.     Tables Chart—Position of Planets                    61
11.     Monthly Prediction (English)                        65
12.     Monthly®^ediction (Tamil)                         .91
13.     Can we dodge fate                             .. iie
                    >
    ERECTION OF THE HOROSCOPES

     In June issue, examples of five births were taken
and the Sidereal time had been worked out to all the
five persons born in different towns, Agra, Allahabad,
Ahmedabad, Boston and San Francisco.
     The first example taken was the birth of a native
at Agra at 6.30 P.M. Indian Standard Time which was
6 hours 12 minutes and 20 seconds Local Mean Time at
Agra, 27 degrees lO^minutes North Latitude and 78
degrees 5 minutes East Longitude. The Sidereal time
was calculated and found out to be 9 hours 42 minutes
and 29 seconds.'
     The next is to find out the exact position of the
Ascendant, the meridian and the cusps of all the other'
 10 houses- Reference can be made to June issue to
have a clear knowledge about the houses and.cusps.
Also strong advice was given to use only the " Raphael
 Table of Houses" to erect Sayana chart, to avoid
mistakes, to work out quickly and to arrive at correct
figures. (For Nirayana, Dr. Raman's and Mr. Lahiri's
may be used).
     In the. Raphael's Table of . Houses, turn over the
page in which the cusps published for thelocafity 27
degrees North or near abou t is given. It is a lucky
coincidence that, in Raphael's' Table of Houses, the
cusps are published for Agra, Latitude 27 degrees 10
minutes north.
    Sidereal time arrived at, is QJtaurs 42 minutes 29
seconds. This is'between 9 hours 41 minutes and 23
seconds and 9 hours 45 minutes and 16 seconds for
which the Cusps are published in the book. The diffe-
rence between these two times given in the book, i.e.,
                                      2

      9 hours 43 min. 16 sec. minus 9 hours 4J mm.
      23 sec. = 3 minutes 52 seconds. The difference
      between the Sidereal time at the time of birth at Agra
      and the Sidereal time just prior to it for which the
      Cusps are given—9 hours 42 minutes 29 seconds minus
  ' 9 hours 41 minutes 23 seconds= 1 minute 6 seconds =
      66 seconds.
       ^1             A l the                          At the
                     Sidereal       Si(/n Sayana Sidereal
                       lime           poet lion         time   Difference
                     0-41-23                    .      9-45-16
     lOlh Cusp                  f Simha,
     (Meridian) 23 degrees I Leo                ' 24 degrees         1°
' - llth Cusp     25     „     JKanni,             26                1"
                               T Virgo
     12th Cusp    24            ) Thulam.          25                1°
                                (Libra
    Ascendant     18-34'      -f Vrischika,                        51'
 , i .                         .1 Scorpio- ■
    2nd Cusp      18 degrees (Dhanur.              19 degrees       1"
                                ( Sagittarius
    3rd Cusp     20      „    JMakaram,           21                1°
                               (, Capricorn
        For an interval of 9 hours 45 minutes 16 seconds
   minus 9 hours 41 minutes 23. seconds which is equal to
   3 minutes 53 seconds = 233 seconds, the Cusps of the
   five houses increase by 1° = 60 minutes. Ascendant
   alone increases by 51 minutes.
       For 9 hours 42 minutes 29 seconds minus 9 hours
   41 minutes 23 secondsor66 seconds, the increase will
   be 66/233 x 60 = 3960/233 = 17 minutes for each cusp.
   As regards the ascendant, 66/233x 51 min. is to be
                       added = 3366/23314 or mitfutes.
       Therefore the Cusps of the lOth, llth, 12th, 2nd
   and 3rd houses will be 23°, plus 0o-17'; 25° plusOM?';
                            3

24° plus 0o-17'; 18° plus 0o-l7': and 20° plusO0-!?';
respectively.
Ascendant will be 180-34' plus 0o-14'= 18°-48'.
                    Sayana Position
      Therefore 10th Cusp Simha (Leo) 230-17'
                  11th Cusp Kanni (Virgo) 250-17'
                  12th'Cusp Thulam (Libra) 240-17'
                  Ascendant Vrischik (Scofopio) 180-48'
                  2nd Cusp Dhanur (Sagittarius) 18°-17'
                  3rd Cusp Makaram (Capricorn) 20o-l7'
      Add 180° to 10th Cusp—you get the cusp of the
4th house. Add 180° to the 11th Cusp, the 5th will be
 obtained. Addition of 180° to the 12th Cusp gives the
 cusp of the 6th house. Diametrically opposite to the
.ascendant or 180o'added to the ascendant will be the.
 cusp of the 7th house. Similarly add 180° to the 2nd"
 and 3rd Cusps and you get the cusps of the 8th and the
 5th houses. Therefore according to Sayana system.
      Ascendant is 18" 48'      Vrischik—(Scorpio)
         2nd Cusp 18° 17'       Dhanur—(Sagittarius)
         3rd Cusp 20° 17'       Makaram—(Capricorn)
       ..4th Cusp 23°           Kumbum—(Aquarius)
         5th Cusp 25° 17'       Meenam—(Pisces)
         6 th Cusp 26° - 17'    Mesha—(Aries)
         7th Cusp 18° dft*      Rishaba—(Taurus)
         8th Cusp 18° 17'       Mithuna—(Gemini)
         9th Cusp 20° 17'      Kataka—(Cancer)
       10th Cusp 23°. 17'       Simha—(Leo)
       11th Cusp 25° 17'        ICanni—(Virgo)
       12th Cusp 26° 17'        Thulam—(Libra)
                                      {Will be continued.)
               TAURUS—RISHABA

                     By Abttdhba
      It is the second sign of the zodiac. It is also 30
degrees in Longitude and it extends from the ■* 30th
degree from Vernal Equinox (orMesha 0) to 60 degree.
In Karthikai Nakshathra (or constellation) the second,
third and fourth padas (quarters), Rohini Nakshathra in
full and Mrigasirisha constellation first half (or the
first and the second padas of Mrigasirisha) are con-
tained in the sign Taurus (Rishaba).
     According to Sayan'a System, nowadays, the Sun
enters the sign Taurus-Rishaba (the Bull) approximately
on twenty-first April. It transits through Rishaba for
nearly 30 days till 21 st May. If one's birth date falls
within these dates, one is called a Taurean as the Sun
will be found in Taurus, according to Sayana System.
Sun moves roughly one degree a day through each sign.
Therefore the birth date will indicate the approximate
degree occupied by Sun when one was bom. For
example, if one was born on 26th April, Sun will be
found 26 minus 21, i.e., 5 degrees Sayana Taurus. If
the birth were to be on 30th April, Sun will be in the"
9th degree Sayana Taurus; on 1st of May in the 10th
degree and so on.
     According to- Nirayana System, Sun will enter
always approximately on the 14th May. It transits the
three quarters of.Karthikai Nakshathra, all the four
quarters of Rohini and the first two padas or the first
half of Mrigasirisham in 30 days, roughly moving each
pada or quarter of a star in 3. days 8 hours. Those
who are bom between May 14th and June I4th (both
days inclusive) will have the Sun marked in their Chart
in Rishaba-Taurus.
                           7

     Therefore according to Sayana or Western System,
people born between 21st April and 21st May are said
to be Taureans having Sun in Sayana Taurus; whereas
according to Hindu System people born between 14th
May and 14th June will be having Sun in Taurus—
NIRAYANA.
     Rishaba is an earthy, fixed, feminine, moist, semi-
fruitful, bestial sign of short ascension. This sign is
symbolised by a bull both by Hindus and Westerners.
They say that the bull appears with unusual horns both
on head and toes. It also appears with a decisive and
determined look to go ahead and rush forward with
great energy, showing its stubborn and tenacious
nature.
     A few thousands of years ago the Egyptians celer
brated May-day festival probably due to theentrance of
the Sun into Taurus tfhich is referred to as' The Sacred
Bull ' and probably when the vernal equinox coincided
with the commencement of Taurus. May-day festival
with its Maypole and garlands may. be their remains. .
      Taurus-(Rishaba) is governed by Venus-(Sukra) who
is said to be the owner of this sign. It is the sign
where Moon gets exalted. As Taurus is the seventh
sign from Scorpio ruled by Mars (Mangal-Kuja-Sevvai-.
Angaraka) it is the house of detriment to Mars. The
fiery nature of Mars gets toned down by the owner,
the passionate and peaceful Venus (Sukra).
     Physical Features: The stature will be middle;
body plumpy; forehead broad; neck thick and stout;
eyes bright; hair dark; complexion, clear; in appear-
ance solidly built and stocky; shoulders big; and
muscles well developed.
     Characteristics: Taurus-{Rishaba) is the first of
the earthy triplicity and the first of the fixed signs.
Being earthy by nature, Taureans can put up with a lot
                              8

of provocation. ■ They can endure and be very patient.
People compare a patient person who works steadily
and waits for the results to come up at one time or the
other only to 'Bhoomi', the Earth. But, Taureans,
when provoked to anger, become very wild with rage
and they are dangerous like earthquake. They will be
violent and unrelenting. They are slow and steady,
plodding and persevering, patient and persistant,
enduring and executive. They are conservative. They
will never waste their energy.
     Being a fixed sign, these persons will have strong
will. They will be determined and dogmatic. Any-
thing done is deliberate and well-thought-out before-
hand. They .will not mind to bide their time till they
feel that it is advantageous and wise to act. When
this house is afflicted, the person will have the vices,
e.g., laziness and self-indulgence. These are their
faults. They may nurse such disorders producing fatal
results.
       As it is both an earthy and fixed sign," the person
born in Taurus will have a sharp eye on his money,
worldly possessions and impelling appetite for food
(second sign of the Zodiac-second house for food) and
for sex (as this sign is ruled by Venus who denotes
opposite sex and pleasure through union). He will
worship money and those which money ban buy. They
concentrate their thoughts. They have immense power
and will. They become worldly and take pleasure in
the good things of life. They are fond of ease, com-
fort and feast. They live in their feelings rather than
 in their minds. If they were to energise their minds a
 little more and live little less in their feelings, they will
 help themselves to maintain good health.
    The persons born in this sign will be straight
forward and natural. Their nature will be plain. They
                              9

try to see things clearly and are slightly sceptical.
They do not jump to conclusions without considering
the pros and cons. One can depend on their opinion
as it will be unbiased and honest.
     As Venus rules this sign, the person will be ambi-
tious and cheerful. As it is the second sign of the
Zodiac representing face, expression, etc., and as
Venus owns it, he will be ever smiling. He may be
highly diplomatic. It is difficult to understand him.
     Venus shows that he will come upon a legacy at
any part of his life because he will command the good-
will and sincere affection of his relatives. Venus also
indicates that he will be fortunate and Goddess Lakshmi
will bless him with ornaments, costly jewels, gems,
furniture, conveyance and comforts. He. will also be
blessed with estates, garden etc., and his hobby also
will be horticulture. He will evince k«en interest in
such and lead a pleasant life. All pleasurable natural-
scenery will appeal to his mind.
     . He will prefer solitude and rural life if Saturn lends
-its assistance by forming beneficial aspect.' .
     Taurus being the second, sigh of the zodiac, it
includes one's speech. People born in Taurus have their
knowledge - and intuition deep-set. They are" not
verbose. They formulate their own opinions. Gene-
rally they do not go wrong. • They hold fast to their
own opinions. They do not yield to other's sugges-
tions .or orders. They will prove to be very stubborn
and steadfast. They will argue and convince others T
but to- change their view, once formed, is out of-
que'stion.
      They will be very slow in accomplishment which is
 Correct when certain circumstances need great delibera-
 tion. Anyhow they need some more speed to cope up
 with majority of their work without mulling matters
                           10

over and over again. They are the best long-term
planners. In spite of any opposition or criticism from
others, they will carry out their original plan, fight it
out and emerge victorious, triumphant and successful.
     As Venus rules this sign, in love affairs, they will
continue to be loyal and true to the one whom the
person likes, even though there may be opposition or
upsetting conditions. A little of self-control is neces-
sary in early life, especially when Taurus receives
aspect from Saturn or if Saturn were to be in the
ascendant in Taurus. For they enjoy the ' fleshpots '
and the pleasant things of life to such a great extent
that they will have unbounded appetite. One is to
try to lead a temperate life.
     Venus gives taste in arts, music, sculpture, cinema,
drama, etc. Yet,1 they are the lucky people who know
the value of money, how to handle it and never give
away easily. They will be at ease only when they
receive money, put it in the pocket or keep it in safe or
deposit in the bank. They do not believe in mere
hopes of making money or realising the entangled
money on a later date. Though they believe that
'Haste is Wasteyet to make money, they do not
hesitate.
     Weakness : One should not be so obstinate, nor
slow in action. Also one should not be so selfish nor
vindictive by retaining anger for a very long time.
      Health: Normally these . persons have robust
health. They will appear to have super-human strength.
They are best adapted for mechanical and laborious
pursuits. They appear to suffer from an over-abundance
of life, rather than a deficiency of it. , Unlike others
they are less sensitive to pains. They can stand up to
any amount of strain. They will never admit physical
disability. If they fall ill, they suffer for a long time
                            11

 without admitting it. Their recuperative powers are-
 not satisfactory. Hence their recovery is generally slow.
     • Disease: GeneraHy;- whenever Taurus is afflicted,,
 one suffers from tonsils, diphtheria, pyorrhea or from,
 the affections of the throat, palate and neck. It also.-
 shows that one may ail from cold and apoplexy.
 Constipation, plethora and similar difficulties may be
 experienced as age advances. As Taurus denotes throat,
 it is that part of the body which is most susceptible to
 illness. As it is the second sign of the Zodiac, pimples,
 in the face and eye-sore always give trouble.
       Finance: Patience and perseverance pays the
  Taucis-borns. They will be able to accumulate and
  hbard money. They will be cautious while spending,
  especially when they are in need. When once fortune
, is made, they spend to their satisfaction, keeping a.
  portion always in reserve even though they do not risk
  in money matters. Never will they squander unneces--
  sarily. As Mercury owns both the second and the fifth ,
  houses from Taurus, they have the gambling tempera--
  ment also. Luckily they will often gain especially
  during Mercury periods. As they have patience and
  preseyerance, they are able to put on a ' poker face ''
  easily whenever necessary.
       Generally, Saturn is held the worst malefic. But.
 for people born in Taurus, Saturn becomes a benefic by
 owning the most favourable houses nine and ten.
 Hence, in their profession they will be able to rise to ■
 the top and take the best-paid jobs. Also Saturn and
 Venus, the ruler of Taurus, make them work for mate-
 rial status. They will invest on estates and grow fruits,.
 flowers, tea, coffee, etc. They will have gardens and
 groves. Mercury also shows that they will be able to
 get money for others. Hence they may be brokers,
 underwriters etc., to collect share capital for an industry
                             12

 or arrange with bankers for overdraft facilities. They
 are practical and build their fortune on a steady, firm
"and reinforced foundation. They don't take chances.
They do not spend away to the last Naya paise of their
income but always keep something in reserve. They
will measure their success only from their savings.
     Profession: As those born in Taurus desire to be
comfortable and enjoy life to the full, they always go
in for the best-paid profession. They have a great liking
to trade in luxury goods. As Vemis rules this sign, they
deal in furs, cosmetics, scents, costly jewels and gems.
     As it is the second sign of the Zodiac and as the
second house indicatesfinance, they may be bankers, or
one in the board of company-managements. Stock-
brokers treasurers, cashiers, speculators, gamblers,
race-goers are mostly born in Taurus.
     As Rishaba is said to be the sign of agriculture
•(Krishi), they may be agriculturists, farmers, gardeners,
 nursery owners etc.
       Venus being the chief governor for .music, pleasure
  and social success, they will be excellent musicians,
  actors, film producers and owners of theatres. Also bill
-collectors, employees in the revenue of agricultural
  department, book, binders,       dressmakers, tailors,
  chemists, painters, decorators, insurance agents, bus
■ owners? taxi-dermists, automobile-transport owners are
  governed by Taurus.' Those who deal in flowers,
  mirrors, glasses, mica, plastic, .rubber, rice, cows,
  cattle, milk.diary farm, ice-cream, parlour, silk, cotton,
  vegetables, petrol, sugarcane and sugar are also those
  who are born having that planet- which indicates their
  profession in Taurus.
        As Venus is a feminine planet and the sign Taurus
Jris also feminine, one may be employed in girl's school
                           13

and ladies' club, Law court, Income-tax department,
sales-tax department, etc. Dealings in earrings, rings,
watches, insulators, ha:ts, shoes, leather, hides, and
skins, leather pocket books, purses, travelling bags,
necklaces, garlands, canes etc., are indicated by Venus.
    When so many modes of earnings are attributed to
Taurus, it is left to the ingenuity of the astrologer to
judge by considering the other aspects: for instance,
one is to consider which planet occupies Taurus; which
aspects the sign, or the lord of the Sign, Venus etc.
     For example, he who supplies boiling milk will
have Mars, Moon and the sign Taurus in.any manner
connected, so that Taurus denotes cow. Moon riiilk and
Mars the fiery planet, to boil it. But he who deals
with ice-cream will have Saturn and Moon connected
with Taurus or Venus, its lord, so that Venus denotes
cow, Moon milk and the cold binding planet cools
down and brings, out ice-cream. Venus denotes silk:
Venus and Sun indicate silk with lace: Venus and
Mars show the dealers in Rayon: Venus with Mercury
indicates cloth merchants.
    Saturn . shows mineral products: Moon and
Saturn denote kerosene as Moon is watery: Venus,
Moon and Saturn indicate petrol as Venus shows refine-
ment and is also the chief governor for motor cars etc.
     Venus is Thejas ; beauty and skin: Saturn is for
the hair-growth : Sun for wool: Mars for Industry.
Venus and Saturn show that one will deal in skins and
hides as Saturn is the chief governor for longevity and
indicates the dead. So Saturn and Venus indicate dead
skin. Mars indicates industry. If Venus were to'be
in the twelfth house, then dealings in shoes is to be
predicted as llth house shows foot. Foot-wear dealers
will have Venus, Saturn and Mars as the planet^, indi-
cating profession. (Profession will be dealt' with
                           14

elaborately and a handy ready reckoner will be
published after all the signs and planets are explained).
     Venus, Saturn and Mercury show that the native •
will deal in exports and imports of leather goods. If
Sun also has any connection with them, he will deal in
woollen goods, carpets etc.
     Venus is for scents and for beauty. If Venus is
connected with Moon, he will deal in scents and scented
oils: If Venus and Moon receive aspect from Mars,,
the native may manufacture scented soaps : If Sun is
also connected) it indicates medicated soapp: If Venus
and Mars alone are connected, they show scented
powders. Venus, Sun and Moon denote Anjan for the
eye or eyetex.
     Venus, Mars and Moon in the 3rd and 12th houses
indicate the liquid colours used to priish the nails like
cutex.
     Planets in Taurus indicating vehicle show that he
will have a four:legged vehicle : Mars suggests that it
will be run by motor; i.e. there is mechanical-contri-
vance ; Saturn or Lord of -6 connected with the planets
indicating profession and Taurus show that he will be
a taxi-driver.
     In this manner one is to analyse and judge. In
whatever profession they are, they will prove to be good
administrators maintaining discipline and controlling
others. They are hard to budge, if they dnce make a
decision; they will go ahead eVen though there may be
opposition. If they have partners in business, it is
advisable that the partners do not confront them with
fresh ideas suddenly, off and on. They (the partners
of Taurus bom) should wait, select a time and plant the
seed. Carefully and cautiously they have to impress on
the mind of the Taureans; allow time for them to accept
                            15

the idea slowly; then they themselves will come oui
with a little improvement or modification to the origi-
nal idea, regard it as their own and finally put the
proposal into practice. In service, Taureans are found
to be faithful to the end.
     Domestic Environments: Men born in Taurus are
good providers and the women are good home-makers.
There will be happy and harmonious life. They have
•comfort, rest and peace at home. They like their own
native land. Scenery will attract them. Peace,
pleasure, prosperity, property, popularity and position
mean much to'them.
     Taureans always supply sumptuous food and give
feast to others. . If they are not served similarly by the
guest, they cannot tolerate. They decorate the house;
keep furniture etc., tidy and maintain their home in
good condition.
      Marriage and Married Life: People born in
Taurus are not generally impulsive. They take much
time to take a decision in the matter of selecting the
 partner in life. If once they decide that a particular
individual is ideal, they will stick on and will never
leave a stone unturned till they come out successful.
 Since the sign is an earthy one, those born in the other
two earthy signs or in the three watery signs will prove
to be good partners contributing to peace, maintaining
harmony and leading a happy, life. There may be
romances for Taurus-borns. If they fall in love with
 any, they are faithful to them to the last. Their emo-
tions will be deep. They do not like to quarrel and
they :hate confusion. The men born in Taurus will
have loving wives and the ladies born in this sign wiil
have devoted husbands. Love is real to them. They
will always fulfil their social and financial obligations.
They will always be affectionate, warm and ever-loving.
                          16

"hey respond to kind-treatment.   They are flattered by
txury.
    Divorce is rare. They will endure and suffer even
itold miseries and never desert the partner. They will
tve such a feeling that the partner must be sheltered,
 oked after, attended upon, cared for and protected
 ider any circumstances,
     Taurus husbands adore their wives. They do not
 nd taking all pains to supply them whatever they
 nt. They may have their partners born in a higher
 k. They may not be already related as the lord of
    seventh' house is also lord of the twelfth house,
  ■.y are reliable, generous and faithful. They will
   er neglect their house. They want their wives to
   ;s nicely and look attractive. They will never find
   r domestic life tiresome, nor at any part of their
    will they regret marriage and look back to the
    ol days when they were bachelors and were free to
    s they pleased.

   Taurus wives'will behave both like a mother and
   a wife. They will appear to be reserved and calm,
    may doubt their husband's love and affection and
   nake no secret of their love. They will also be
    ly anxious t« lead a happy harmonious wedded

     hey seem to care more for their homes than, they
      themselves between husband- and wife. They
     ore satisfactory and dutiful parents- than they
     partners in life. The softer side of their nature
     > them with a gentleness, a peacefulness and a
      y which makes them the roost desirable com-
      3 in any relationship of life. Their feelings are
       iily hurt. It doe's not find hasty or ill-timed
       ion.
                                 18

          Countries:   Persia,   Modia,    Mozendaram,
      Azerbjjan, Caucusus, Georgia, Cyprus, Asia Minor,
      Poland, the Archipelago, Holland, white Russia
     ■and Ireland.
         Cities and Towns: Rhodes, Mantua, Dublin,
     Parma, Leipzig, Franconia, Palermo, Bhadra, Marwar,
     Ghosha, the Yamuna, Mathsya, Mathura, Surasena,
     Panchala, Ayodbya, Kuru,        Pariyatra Mountain,
     Kapisthala and Hastinapura.
           - Animate and Inanimate Objects: White flowers,
       reciters of sacred hymns, grammarians, miners, potters,
       priests, astrologers, observers of vows, merchandise,
    . kings, wealthy persons, yogins, cartraen, cows, bulls,
      •aquatic animals, agriculturists, mountains, men in
      ■authority, garments, fruits, gems,musicians and lovers.
          Character To Be Corrected : So far the general
     indications of Taurus are dealt with in detail. They
     are applicable only when Taurus sign is not afflicted by
     any planet. But if the birth-sign Taurus receives
     adverse aspects, the person will have undesirable effects
     and results. It is necessary to. cultivate some virtues
-    and try to avoid the evil effect.
            For instance, Mars and Mercury afflicting the-
    ' ascendant Taurus, or Mars afflictingMercury in Taurus
      ■or Mercury forming evil aspect with Mars in Taurus
       makes one a criminal. Generally psychologists'and
       psychiarists will meet with a large number of. children
    . born under the above circumstances. In their youth,
      they may remove small coins from the parents' purse
      and may not be corrected by their -parents in time, with
       the result that these people do hot respect the personal
      rights and possessions of others.. They will be going
      on committing such crimes without giving thought to
      its seriousness and wrongfulness. They are the people
      who . automatically follow the impulse' and during.
                            19

unguarded moments rob away from the busy persons.
They commit thefts in banks, etc. Saturn and Mercury
give them the courage to commit forgery and cheat the
bank. But Saturn and Mercury forming favourable
aspects show that one's realisation is less than anticipa-
ted. They will be inclined to hold on to the past,
long after it had served its usefulness. They have to
re-channel their energies into right procedure, as they
may get into wrong lines of activity and schools of
thought. The best types of interests alone should
become a part of their thinking mentality.
     Saturn alone afflicting the ascendant makes the
natives lazy and lethargic. They don't realise that
life moves ever forward. They generally do not move
along with it. So they are soon out of step and out
of tune.'
  - Hence, people born in Taurus, having these
adverse aspects have to correct themselves, when alone
they can enjoy the real fruits of life in this world.
They should pray for "Goddess Lax'mi".
     Planets in Taurus and their results will appear in
the subsequent issues ~
                         MARS

      Astronomy: Mars is one of the outer planets, It is
nearer to the Earth than any of the other outer planets
like Jupiter or Saturn, etc. The mean distance between
the Sun and the Earth is around 93 million miles,
whereas the mean distance between Sun and Mars is
141 million miles. Both Earth and Mars go round
and round the Sun at different velocities. Mars will'
always be outside the circle traced by the Earth.
     Suppose that two cows are tied up to one post
with ropes 93 yards and 141 yards long. jThey go round
the post, and make concentric circles with 93 and 141
yards as radii. The cow tied up with the longer ropo
will make a bigger round than the other and it will eVer
be outside the circle described by the other cow with 93:
yards rope, Similarly, Mars makes a bigger circle than?
that of the Earth and is ever outside the circle formed
by the Earth-
     Only Moon, Mercury and Venus can appear
between the Earth and the Sun on certain occasions.
But Mars, Jupiter and other outer planets can never
travel -between the Sun and the Earth and are ever
outside.
     Mars completes its journey round the Sun in 687
days, so that a Martian year is 687 of our solar-
days. ' Mars is smaller than the Earth and its
diameter is around 4,200 miles. It is just double
that of the Moon. The mass of Mars is a little above
one-tenth of that of-the Earth. It is found that Mars
rotates about itself in 24 hours 37 minutes 23 seconds
in the same direction as that of the Earth. A Martian
Sidereal Day is roughly 1,026 of our solar days. Mars
resembles closely our Earth in one aspect; that is, the
axis, about which it rotates, is tilted up at an angle of
                           21

24 degrees 50 minutes. Just like the Earth, Mars has
temperate and frigid zones.
     Mars is red in colour and so its light is ruddy in
appearance. It shines in the night so very brilliantly
that one will not miss to notice it. It can be easily dis-
tinguished from other stars and planets. Mars is
inconspicuous both in the early morning and in the
evening immediately after sunset, when it will be
nearer to the Sun. But, when the longitude between the
Sun and Mars increases, the latter shines more bril-
liantly than the brightest of the stars (Sirius).
     Mythology: Mars is said to • be the deity of the
Buddhists and the God of the Romans. It is the God
of war and also of hunting. Mars (or Ares in Greek;
Artes in Egyptian; Angaraka, Mangala, Kuja in
Sanskrit and Sewai in Tamil) is the son of Jupiter
(Zeus) and his wife Hera. He is the God of dispute,
destruction and war. He was disliked by one and all
because of his warlike nature. Many a time, other
Gods wounded him and conquered him. Once he was
imprisoned by his conqueror; Mercury came to his
relief and freed him. He loved Venus who reciprocated
satisfactorily. Mars was held in high esteem and
honour in the Roman Empire. In the Bible, Mars is
symbolised by the Devil. It is the God of force and
energy. According to the Hindus, Mars is God
Muruga, Subramanya, Kumaraswamy,. Velayudham or
Vadivel, meaning the fighting power. He is considered
to be the Commander-in-Chief of the celestial armies.
Mars rules over " Sama Veda ".
     Mars ruled the first month of the Roman Year,
March and the eighth month of the Roman Year,
October. Certain days in those months were given over
to Martian ceremonies. Until the time of Augustus,
Mars had only two temples at Rome. Both were con-
nected with warlike operations. Originally, one of the
                             22

 temples was an altar; while the other was the gate
 through which the army used to inarch.
        Astrology : Mars is a dry,fiery planet, masculine by
  nature.' Mars rules Aries and Scorpio, gets exalted in
  Capricorn, debilitated in Cancer and" detrimented in
   Taurus and Libra. Mars is significant of energy,
  both constructive and destructive, depending upon its
   position, aspects and location in.the horoscope. JVIars
   has much to do with one's ambition and desires. Mars
  symbolises the senses and rules over the animal
  instinct in man. Generally, Mars is said to be a
  malefic planet. If it is not afflicted and if it receives
  favourable aspects, it offers the following good quali-
  ties as self-confidence, endurance, impulse for all
  ventures and heroic deeds, strength, courage, comba-
  tiveness, sharp wit, faculty to argue, go ahead spirit,
  etc. Mars bestows one with quick mental activity and.
  extraordinary muscular strength, great organising
  ability, power for practical execution, independent
. spirit, force of character, strong determination, ambi-'
  tion to come out successful in the.material field inspite
  of any opposition and above all, leadership in all
  pursuits. Mars gives the chance to accomplish almost
  everything which one desires, in a resourceful and
  ingenious manner.
       If one is intelligent and sensible, he will never
  oppose a Martian, because the Martians will select the
  opportune mo.ment to strike and also to withdraw.
  They will act in such a propitious moment- that the
  Martians willsurely inflict defeat on others/It isalways
  advisable to make all efforts to enter into a compro-
 mise with Martians instead of Widening the gap, and
 inviting further trouble.
     Martians combine physical delight and spiritual
well-being when they live on a higher plane of con-
sciousness.
                            23

      If Mars is weak and afflicted in a horoscope, the
native will be rash, will lose temper quickly and will
be fool-hardy. As Mars rules over contentions and
strifes, one will be quarrelsome. If Mars is afflicted
and weak, all the good qualities mentioned above will
be absent, and he will submit ■ himself to others. He
may be fond of drink. Whenever there is any diffe-
rence of opinion, he relies .more in the application
of brute force than to argue intelligently and try to
convince logically. He is always ready for "violence.
He will not hesitate to take the aggressive parts.
    . Mostly, the worst type of sexualist is governed by
Mars. Such people will satisfy their sexua] hunger in
novel ways. They will not mind about the pain they
give to the partners. They may adopt malpractices.
     Martians are said to be extremists.- If they are
true to anybody, they will go to any extent at the risk
of their lives .to save their friends. They will sacrifice
anything.                                      '<
     Beneficial Mars makes the natives adventurous and
independent. They do not relish suggestions from
others, but they will act according- to their, own
conscience. They dislike small undertakings, but
prefer to execute large projects. Many pioneers,
leaders, heroes, warriors, and explorers are the sons of
Mars.
     "Mars is the chief governor for brothers and
landed property ".
     Physical Features : People born with. Mars as
ruling planet will have white complexion with a shade
of red. The natives will be tall and muscular. There'
will be pimples on the face. The eyes will be round.
Their waists will be narrow and the bones will be full
of red bone marrow.
                           24

      Aspects with other Planets: Mars forming good
aspect with Sun makes the body of the native hot and
susceptible to sharp and acute complaints such as small-
pox, high fever, etc. Good aspect between these two
planets gives abundant energy and good health. There
will be enough of immunity and. resistance against
infectious diseases. Both the planets give courage,
frankness and enthusiasm. They will be self-made and
lucky. If they form bad aspect, the natives are liable
to suffer from fever, accident, cuts, wounds, explosions,
etc. There will be unnecessary disputes, excitement and
difficulties due to rash actions. Domestic life also will
be unpleasant and unhappy. They get easily irritated
and become violent. They will be worried.
      Mars forming good aspect with Moon indicates
that the native will be very generous, ambitious, bold
and enthusiastic. Robust health especially to ladies (as
both the planets govern the menstrual periods), strong
constitution and good appearance are given by Mars.
Evil aspects among these two planets threaten the native
with rash and impulsive action. He may be reckless
and go to the extreme without considering the
consequences. Both health and reputation will suffer.
Accidents will be frequent and there may be profuse
bleedings. Beneficial aspects promise improvement in
status and satisfactory SnanciaT success. Adverse
aspects portend losses, slander, end of life to any near
and dear relative, misunderstanding, silly quarrels and
irritation.
     If Mars receives good aspects from Mercury, one
will evince love for work; he will speedily complete all
the duties assigned to him. This aspect offers vitality,
vigour and valour. Promotion,'prosperity, success in
competition and disputes, bright outlook on life and
adventurous spirit are indicated by the beneficial aspects
between Mars and Mercury. Adverse aspects will make
                             25

 the native a cheat, a scoundrel and a thief. Also the
 native himself may lose by theft. He may be swindled
 by others.
     Good aspect from Jupiter to Mars shows that the
native will be determined, exercising free will with a go
ahead spirit. He will be able to bend others to his
desire and he will be noble. He will succeed in
competitive examinations and gain financial success.
L'ogicians and lawyers will have the favourable aspect
between Mars and Jupiter. So also the bank agents and
political leaders will be' having strong and beneficial
aspects between these two planets.
      Adverse aspect between these two planets causes
■extravagant expense, loss through litigation, loss through
 investment in banks or through gambling. There may
also be criminal proceedings and prosecutions. Depro-
 motion or transfer to undesirable locality or section is
also indicated.
       Good aspect from Venus to Mars is indeed very
 beneficial as the peaceful and passionate Venus will
 soften and tone down the fiery nature of Mars making
 the native courteous, upright, accommodative and
diplomatic. He will try to lead a peaceful and
 harmonious life. Occasionally the amorous nature of
 the native will overcome and conquer his free-will and
 independent spirit. He will be fond of sports and
 pleasurable pursuits. Courage, confidence and capabi-
 lity to do business will help him to amass wealth and
.possess landed properties with garden, etc. He may
spend to his entire satisfaction and enjoy his life a good
deal, forming fortunate attachments with the ladies and
.gaining popularity.
     Bad aspect between Mars and Venus makes one
lavish, reckless, extravagant, and unmindful of any loss
Jhat he may incur. To satisfy his lust and desire, he
                             26

  will do anything and mingle himself with low-class
  women or low-paid servants. A few will even go to the
  extent of borrowing from low-class people and squan-
  der everything. If one were ,to exercise his or her strong,
 will, one can avoid these troubles unlike those caused by
  the evil aspects between Jupiter and Saturn or Jupiter
 and Uranus. Because, these evihresultsare th'eoutcome;
 of his own mean actions. So, one should try to avoid
■troubles; ill-repute, slander,        disgrace, domestic-
  unhappiness, etc., and the dirty venereal' diseases, by
  his or her. strong will, determination and action.
     Favourable aspects between Saturn and Mars is
very beneficial, as Saturn does not allow one to be
impulsive, rash and aggressive. But it regulates, makes
one bold and courageous and gives the native force or
character. Patience, endurance, health and activity
with enthusiasm and executive ability, will reward the
native amply and offer good rise in life to occupy.
covetable posts. He never shirks work, nor has any
stage-fear. Even if his has to face many difficulties due
to other combinations, he will go through the ordeaf.
successfully.
      Adverse aspects are, in some cases, very danger-
 ous. Both are malefic by nature and if they also own
 evil houses, one has to exercise care during the joint
-periods of these two planets or during such periods
.when they form aspects either by transit or by pro-
 gression, One will be rash, get quickly irritated, will
 become uncontrollable, will be hasty and will even
 commit murder. Have we not heard of cold murders
 without any previous contemplation and planning but
 committed suddenly on any provocation followed by
 immediate surrender to the police authorities. With-
 out.any exception, we can see the evil aspects in the
 horoscopes of these criminals. Mars represents sharp
instruments, knife, gun, etc., whereas Saturn is the
                            27

chief governor for longevity; both represent one's end
of life. To ruin oneself by squandering away the
permanent possession, to lose temporary possession by
theft and to J6se one's charm by suffering from small-
pox, etc., are attributed to the evil aspects between
Mars and Saturn.
      Beneficial aspects between Mars and Uranus show
that the native will be resourceful, original and
 independent. He will have intuition and interest in
occult subjects. To discover or to invent this beneficial
aspect is "very helpful. His latent ingenuity and
abilities will be translated to action, whenever these
two planets form favourable aspects either by transit or
by progression. Bad aspect is as dangerous as that
between Saturn and Mars. The native will get angry
and when provoked further, he cannot be controlled.
Perversion, eccentricity and doggedness will not allow
him to pay heed to others'suggestions but to carry on
in his own line of action. He may become stone-
hearted and wicked. Whether he has any material gain1,
or not, he will fight out to the last to establish that he
is right. If he feels that the price of shares must go up
sooner or later, he will not mind holding his purchase
position for months, even though the market is weak,,
there is no support and the bulls are absent. To stick
to his own idea and not to move along with the
current, inspitc of the loss he may incur, is the result
of this.aspect. He" will start any business in a flash:
which will end in a crash, followed by disgrace and.
slafider.
     Good aspect with Neptune makes the" native reli-
gious. He may make long journeys, have'contact
with .foreigners, have foreign collaboration and gain
much profits in wholesale business, agency, etc.
Success to a satisfactory extent and jubilant spirit are.
promised.
       Aspects with other Planets: Mars forming good
       t with Sun makes the body of the native hot and
         tible to sharp and acute complaints such as small-
 ^ high fever, etc. Good aspect between these two
        [s'gives abundant energy and good health. There
            enough of immunity and resistance against
 p'.jl jous diseases. Both the planets give courage,
*Iw^cs
    r ness and enthusiasm. They Thev will be self-made and
 W         If they form bad aspect, the natives are liable
            from fever> accident,cuts, wounds, explosions,
jpyJijjere will be unnecessary disputes, excitement and
  C, itiessan due to rash actions. Domestic life also will
          I02 t and unhappy. They get easily irritated
      ^P./jjne violent. They will be worried.
vt f
        /afS forming good aspect with Moon indicates
T ^ pative will be very generous, ambitious, bold
!      ^.hpsiastic. Robust health especially to ladies (as
  Pre planets 80vern the menstrual periods), strong
 H t^ponand good appearance are given by Mars.
      gets among these two planets threaten the native
iQAaWfy and impulsive action. He may be reckless
H'i Tio
m      to the
            the extreme
                extreme without
                          without considering
                                     considering the
                                                   the
pJn Ko pees. Both health and reputation will suffer.
ru <£ s ^11 he frequent and there may be profuse
           Beneficial aspects promise improvement in
            satisfactory financial' success. Adverse
iQjrjy ^ftend losses, slander, end of life to any near
iwi 9 relative, misunderstanding, silly quarrels and
fwA<
 W fS receives good aspects from Mercury, one
 yfa
 iW etrP^ l.£,ve   ^or f/\
                rrn^/l
                        wor c
                             ' ' heTliio
                           Viim     will speedily
                                          fi      complete    all
                                                        vJfalJfv
              sisned to                   as ecto
Mwf'r M                                      P    ffers vitality*
i\ iWA valour. Promotion,! prosperity, success in
P QPyaI JV 1\ and disputes, brightVIJ&U*. outlook VXJ
                                                  on life
                                                      J1IW and
                                                             WJ4V.
) \v sir$ spirit are indicated by the beneficial aspects
  i' vd,cP 'rs
             fS and Mercury. Adverse aspects will make

W/f
it
                            25

the native a cheat, a scoundrel and a thief. Also the
native himself may Jose by theft. He may be swindled
by others.
      Good aspect from Jupiter to Mars shows that the
native will be determined, exercising free will with a go
ahead spirit. He will be able to bend others to his
desire and he will be noble. He will succeed in
-competitive examinations and gain financial success.
Lbgicians and lawyers will have the favourable aspect
between Mars and Jupiter. So also the bank agents and
political leaders will be' having strong and beneficial
aspects between these two planets.
      Adverse aspect between these two planets causes
-extravagant expense, loss through litigation, loss through
investment in banks or through gambling. There may
also be criminal proceedings and prosecutions. Depro-
motion or transfer to undesirable locality or section is
also indicated.
      Good aspect from Venus to Mars is indeed very
beneficial as the peaceful and passionate Venus will
 soften and tone down the fiery nature of Mars making
 the native courteous, upright, accommodative and
<liplomatic. He will try to lead a peaceful and
harmonious life. Occasionally the amorous nature of
 the native will overcome and conquer his free-will and
independent spirit. He will be fond of sports and
pleasurable pursuits. Courage, confidence and capabi-
lity to do business will help him to amass wealth and
possess landed properties with garden, etc. He may
spend to his entire satisfaction and enjoy his life a good
-deal, forming fortunate attachments with the ladies and
gaining popularity.
     Bad aspect between Mars and Venus makes one
lavish, reckless, extravagant, and unmindful of any loss
that he may incur. To satisfy his lust and desire, he
                              28

      Bad aspect makes him perverted in sexual life,
 and a fanatic in religion or philosophy. His mind will
 be to poison others or to commit suicide by drowning
•or taking poison. Otherwise, he himself will run the
 risk of being drowned in the sea, river, lake or well.
      Thus the characteristics of the native get modified
 by the variousi aspects received by Mars from the other
 planets.

      Parts of the Body: Mars governs the external sex
 organs, muscular system, left ear, face and head, sense
 of taste, the bladder, nose, (It is concerned with both
 the reproductive and destructive processes.) ureters,
 pelvis of kidney, prostrate gland, groins, rectum, the
 colon, the test and red bone marrow.

      Diseases from which one suffers when one runs
 the period of Mars who, by -its lordship or by occupa-
 tion, becomes evil, may be any of the following. All
acute fevers, Plague, Small-pox, Chicken pox, Measles,
 Mumps, inflammatory complaints, burns, ruptures of
capillaries,"Fistula, wounds, cuts, brain fever, Haem-
morrhage. Typhoid, Puerperal fever, ulcer in the intes-
 tines, Hernia, Erysipelas, Malaria, Abortions, bleeding,
"boils, carbuncles, Appendicitis, Muscular rheumatism,
 Tumour, Septic poisoning,.Tetanus, etc.
        When so many diseases are indicated by Mars, to
   pitch upon the exact .nature of the ailment and to
 •diagnose it, needs further deep study, thorough
   analysis and correct judgment. Else, Astrology will
   not be useful to the doctor and also to the patient. One
 •can take precautionary measures (prophylactic,
   vaccines, etc.) only when he is forewarned, well in
   advance and he can try to protect himself completely
. or reduce the virulence of the disease, if it is inevitable
  ■to suffer from it.
                             29

      As the explanation will run to many pages, it is
  proposed to deal with this subject in detail in the
  subsequent issues, under the heading, '' Diseases and
  Diagnosis
       Profession : As Mars gives one courage and it is
  a militant planet, one will be employed in the military
  •department. Police is also governed by Mars. Those
  who deal with guns, hunters and gunners will have
  Mars as the lord of the 2nd, 6th or the 10th house or
  Mars may occupy or aspect these houses, or be con-
  joined with the lords of those houses.
       Chemists, dentists, surgeons, butchers and barbers
  are governed' by Mars.
       Those who deal in iron and steel, in the kitchen,
  in the boilers, steam engines, etc., are under the rule of
  Mars.
        It also indicates the smiths' industry, factory,
   dealers in corals, ruby, red articles, thief, robber,
   dacoit, murderer, etc.
        Mars in the fiery sign shows that he will go to the
   war front and fight.        In earthy sign, it indicates
   infantry. Mars occupying airy sign denotes Air pilots.
   Watery sign occupied by Mars indicates Navy. So also
    planets conjoined with Mars or aspecting Mars give
   clue to find out the exact nature of one's profession.
   Sun conjoined with Mars indicates that he may be in
   the military hospital, as Sun denotes medical depart-
   ment, Moon denotes Navy. Mercury indicates that
   he may be in the accounts or audit department, as
   Mercury stands for inspection of accounts; military or
   mechanical engineering is also governed by Mars and
   Mercury, Venus rules over transport. Saturn indi-
   cates that he may be employed in digging trenches,
   graves, etc.-, and also to carry the wounded as well as
■- to dispose of the dead.
                              30

      Detailed explanation and guidance to ascertain
 one's profession will also appear in subsequent issues,
 when the students have thoroughly understood each,
 sign, each planet and the various houses.
     Products : Iron and Steel, Coffee, Tea, Cholam,
Shellac, Tobacco; Hemp, Wallnut, Cashewnut, Ground-
nut, Betelnut, Ginger, Pine, Mustards, Nux Vomica,.
Gentian, Garlick, Brandy, 'Whisky, Arrack, Toddy,.
Bhasmum (Powders), Metallic Oxides, Pungent articles,
Axe, Knife, Sword, Gun, etc., Copper, Weapon called
Sataghni, landed properties, serpent, thorny plants,:
Land, Building, old materials, old instruments for
repairs, and renewal.
                              \
     Mars and. Saturn denote iron and steel ; Mars and
Verfus show coffee, tea, etc. Mars and Neptune indicate
tobacco. Mars and Moon rule over Brandy, Whisky^
etc.' Mars and Rahu or Ketbu suggest serpents..
       Political : Differences of opinion, disputes, diffi-
 culties, misunderstandings and quarrels among leaders.
 Preparation for war and fight in battle field, restlessness
 in the State,, revolution, violence, rniuder, rape, loot,
 bloodshed, arson, kidnapping, etc. Cordite Factory,
manufacture of arms and ammunition, bombs, fire-
 works, tanks, weapons, acids, etc. Reorganisation or
 expansion of industry, factory, etc., producing chemi-
 cals, fertilisers, tractors, jeeps, arms and the distinctive
 and death inflicting weapons; nationalisation .of such
^industries; drastic laws and reforms; Martial Law'
and Ordinance, expropriation of Foreign Capital;
expansion of agriculture ; reclamation of waste lands
 marshy lands, etc. Controls of the produce governed
by Mars. Restriction in their movement, sales, etc."
     Economic; Whenever Mars forms           beneficial,
aspects, there will be great activity and new ventures,
will be'undertaken. In the market, there, will be brisk
                            31

  "buying and selling. New companies will be floated.
  Good aspects at the time of the registration of
  the company show that it will be sound and profitable.
 Bad aspects forewarn that the relationship among
 the directors will , not be cordeal. There will be
 misunderstanding and difficulties. Manufacture of
  motors, engines, spare parts of machines, tools, etc.,
 ■and the export and import of . these are ruled by
  Mars. As it is called Boonii Karnka and it is also a
  fiery planet, manufacture, of brick, construction of
  buildings, quarters for officials and servants are ruled
 "by Mars. Being an impulsive and'rash planet, the
  prices of shares will suddenly have a sharp rise or if
  Mars is afflicted, by Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, etc., a
  precipitous fall. Good aspect gives courage to Bulls
 and bad aspect depresses them "but gives go ahead
spirit Jo the Bears.
       There will be strikes by Kisans, Technicians,
  Mechanics and subordinates and in consequence agri-
culture and industry will be affected. Jupiter and Venus
afflicting Mars threaten the cultivators with loss and
 disappointment, as the agricultural produce will be
affected by locusts, pests, rats, etc. There will be
 increase in the tax to launch new projects or due to war
 preparations and .stock-piling. Purchases of Fire
 Engines, Expansion of Fire ExtinguisTiing Department,
Expansion of Vigilance, A.R.P., etc., are also governed
by Mars.
       Handwrltiog : Mars gives sharp angles and narrow
 hooks. The upper zone will be short whereas the lower
.zone will belong and strong, His words will invaria-
bly slant towards the right.         Only very rarely, he
 writes upright. The strokes of his words will be thick.
He will separate his words lavishly and waste'much
 paper. But he will not waste much time to write. He
finds that putting a dot over ' i' and drawing a hori-
zontal stroke for 't' are waste of time. He will
                           32

boldly underline his signature which will ascend front
left to right.
      Animals and Birds : Savage Beasts, Tiger, Wolf,
Hunting Dogs, etc., and also Elephant according to
Brihat Samhita, Vulture, Kite, Hawk, etc.
      Plants and Herbs: Thorny plants, gentian, gar-
lick, groom, mustard, hemp, coriander, tobacco, pine,
red ones.
      Places in India: Mars presides over Narmada,
Bheemaratha, Nirvindhya,        Vetravatee, Godavari,
Vena, Ganges, Mahanadhee, Sindu, Uttara Pandya,
near mount Mahendra, Vindhya, Malaya, Chola,
Dravida, Vjdeha, Andhra, Kerala, Asmaka, Bhasapara
Kuntalai, Cantipura, Nassik, Bhogavardhana, Tuple,
Gutnptee, etc.
      Places: War field. Military area. Slaughter
houses, Police station, Industrial .area. Smith's shops,
etc.
      Time: The two months governed by Mars are
termed as Grishma Ruthu —June and July.
      Days: Mars rules over Tuesdays. Sundays and
Mondays will prove to be the days of success, pleasure
and profit. Friday shows pleasure,' union and expense.
Wednesdays affect health, yet increases one's income
and improves one's' business and gives frequent short
journeys. Thursdays are for investment, expansion
and long journey, Saturday will be dull and lethargic.
     Number: 9 is the number of Mars. 1,2,4,7
are auspicious.- 3 shows journey and 'pleasant pur-
chases. 5 is lucky, yet health will deteriorate. 6 shows
pleasure and expenses.. 8 threatens that the native will
be lazy and enjoy success when he gets dejected.
    Colour: Red is ruled by Mars. If one is very
impulsive or rash, he can use blue, so that he can exer-
                           33

cise caution and avoid injuries. While one selects a
colour, it is very important to note the weak points of
the native for corrections and improvement. If Mars
is very strong and is in a fiery or airy sign, he will be
very bold and even rash. For such people, green and
blue are the colours best suited to cool them down and
keep them under control. They will not be rash but
they will have enthusiasm and practical executive
ability. If Mars indicates one's disease, the astrologer
has to consider the nature of the ailment and suggest
the colour accordingly. If Mars and Moon cause,
small-pox, use red colour for the panes, glass-doors,
screen cloth; etc., so that the patient will have rapid
cure and he will" not appear pox-faccd, as no scars and
pits will be formed due to exposure to red colour. But.
if Mars and Mercury cause excitement, insanity or fits,
use blue and green when he will come to normal. But
if one is gloomy, dull, lethargic and lazy, use red
colour to make him active. His depression and inferio--
rity complex will disappear. He will make fresh
attempts and come out successful, even though he had
been suffering for a long period due to delay or denial.
Red Colour offers authority and power; it is useful to
overcome dangers, and avoid accidents. That is why .
Police Station is red. Policemen are supplied with red
caps; fire engine has red paints and red signals stop
one from further proceeding in the same direction at
that time, to avoid collision, derailment, accidents, etc.
All these show that red colour is used to avoid danger,
to run no risk to maintain law and order and to lead
happy life.

      Gems: Coral, ruby and all red stones are
governed by Mars. If one desires to avoid injuries,
cuts, burns, scalds, abrasions, to become bold and
independent, and to succeed in competition, litigation,
etc., he can use red stones.
                               35

       Prayers : To ward off the evil indicated by Mars
  and to enjoy beneficial results, one should pray to the
  following Gods:
         (1) If Mars is not connected with any planet,
              Lord Muruga, Subramanya.
          (2) If connected with Sun, Veerabhadra : Surya
              namaskaram.
          (3) If conjoined with Moon, Kali, Parvathi,
              Lalitha.
          (4) If in any manner connected with Mercury,
              Narasimha Veeraraghava.
          (5) Mars, Mercury and Venus,—Lakshmi
              Narasimha.
         (6) Mars, Mercury and Saturn,—Anjaneya.
         (7) Mars and Jupiter,—Satyanarayana.
         (8) Mars and Venus—Maha Lakshmi.
          (9) Mars and Saturn—Karuppannan, Madurai-
              veeran.
        (10) Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Mercury—Venkata-
              chalapathi.
        (11) Mars, Saturn and Rahu—Ayyappan.
        (12) Mars and Kethu—Lord Ganesh.
        (13) Mars, Venus and Kethu—Vallabha Gana-
              pathi.
        (14) Saturn, Mars, Venus and Kethu—Uchishta
              Maha Ganapathi and so on.1
        Advice to Ladies : It is advantageous to wear red
   stones, to put on red kumkum, to use red clothes, etc.
.. Because from the time of birth till the end of life at
   fevery stage, it is Mars which has to protect them: e.g.
           (1) in infancy to have resistance against
                 diseases, not to suffer from liver complaints,
                to put on weight, not to touch fire and suffer
                from burns, not to dip the hands in boiling
                milk, etc., and avoid ailments from boils.
                        36

    (2)   in youth, to avoid fire accidents which is
          common among girls when they light,
          crackers or stand near stoves, etc.,
    (3) to have proper menstruation and not to
          suffer from pains in the breast or belly,
    (4) to be free from Mars dhosha and have a
         pleasing partner, to have the marriage cele-
         brated in proper age without undue delay,
    (5) not to suffer f/om abortions, bleeding, etc.,
    (6) not to seek for a surgeon's aid but to have
         easy delivery without even instruments and
         no blood transfusion;
    (7) to own lands,
    (8) to own a house,
   (9) to avoid accidents while going by car,
         scooter, etc.',
  (10) to have good understanding, with brothers
        "and receive help from them as Mars is the
         chief governor for brothers. (He will be the
         (mama) uncle to her children whose co-opera-
         tion contributes to peace and prosperity.)
  (11) and above all to feel that she is respected
         by others and there are some people to carry
         out her instructions or wishes, not excluding
         her husband,
  (12) to have no fears, but to be courageous to
         maintain health and be ever active till the
         end of life.'
   Therefore ladies should fast on Tuesdays, to pray
■ that diety as recommended above, use red gems,
iths, "etc., which will give" them mental solace.'
ey can.be confident that there is no more evil ruled
 Mars, etc.
               SUN IN EACH HOUSE
              (Continued from July ijiwe)
                    SETTING SUN
                 <Sun in the 7th House)

     Seventh House is an important angle. Astrologers
can predict many evepts in one's life and one's rela-
tionship with others by considering the 7th house which
is both the compliment to lagna and also opponent to
the first house.
     Seventh House answers "questions concerning
marriage, love affairs, description of partner in life,
their characteristics, law suits, one's second child,
partners in business, younger brother's child (5th to the
3rd), maternal grand-mother (4th to 4th), father's
elder brother or father's friend (11th to 9th), friend's
father (9th to 11th), the end of life to his secret enemy
(8th to 12th), as well as maraka-sthana to the native
(7th house to Lagna). First house stands for longevity
while the 7th house indicates short span of life.     ;* \ i
     Eighth house also shows longevity. Viyaya or
negative to 8th is 7. So loss of life is indicated by the
7th house as death is Viyaya to life.
      Seventh".House also represents the doctors who
-attend on him, the bank that lends money or the bank
 in which money is deposited, the engineer who builds
 his house, etc. Thus, each and every( individual with
 whom transactions are made or .with whom one gets
 into close touch, is represented by the 7th house.
     Sun in the Seventh House is said to be a benefic by
a few ; others call It a malefic. Both are correct. Sun
will prove to be good, whenever it receives good aspects
from other planets and will cause anxiety if the aspects
                           38

are adverse. Sun in the Seventh House conjoined with
malefics will become very evil, while with benefics the
Sun gives one, all that is good in life.
    Sun in the 7th house shows that the marriage
partner will be endowed with good personality and will
be magnanimous, noble, proud, firm-minded, rich,
warm-hearted, steady in attachment, true and happy.
Good aspects of Sun promise gain from the time of
marriage and also improvement in status and position.
     The kind of'copulation which a native can have is
indicated by the 7th house to Lagna and also to adhana
Lagna—7th house is otherwise called " Astha Rasi "
as it is setting then.
     Malefics in the 7th house show that the enjoyment
takes place much against the wish of either of the two.
     If Mars is in 7, the woman concerned gets into
anger after satisfaction. If Saturn is in 7, the couple
will get into anger without satisfaction or enjoyment.
If Sun is in 7 aspected by evil planets, there will be
repulsion at the outset itself.
     If benefics conjoin or form favourable aspects,
then the union will be followed by ' Vilasa' and
' Hasa ', i.e., real satisfactory conjugal bliss.
      Sun in 7 shows that the native will enjoy with a
barren woman. It will be true only when Sun occupies
evil and barren sign and also the Nakshathra, ruled by
malefics or effeminate planets. (Arudhra, Hastha are.
fruitless stars. Mercury and Saturn are effeminate
planets).                           ,                '
      Sun owns the 5th house of the Zodiac, Leo, which
is classified as barren. Seventh house Libra is' said to
be the house of debilitation. Libra is ruled by Venus
                            39

which offers all fruits and comforts of life in this
 world, whereas the Sun which is more concerned with
the uplift of the soul cannot give such results denoted
by Venus. Saturn's exaltation in the 7th house of
Zodiac confirms that its enemy Sun cannot be strong,
whereas its bosom friend Venus is powerful. Therefore,
7th house indicates union and Sun therein deprives
pleasure arising out of such union. Further, Lord of
5 in 7 is not favourable to give children. Sun being
Lord of the 5th sign of the Zodiac, getting debilitated
in the 7th sign Libra, confirms the statement that
people with Sun in 7 will have union with barren
women. It is invariably correct when Sun is conjoined
with or aspected by evil planets., Benefics aspecting
the Sun may give good health to wife but they may
adopt contraceptive methods to limit the issues.
    . Sun in the 7th house indicates that the partners
will be.natural leaders, ambitious, independent, deter-
mined,' industrious, persistent, honest, conscientious,
philosophicdl and philanthropic. They are easily pro-
voked but quickly appeased. They will be frank and
outspoken.
     Sun" shows that the second child will be magnetic,
intuitive, inventive, candid, forceful, fond of sports,
drama, honours and high position in life.
- - Generallyi all the relatives indicated by the 7th
House will have more or less similar characteristics.
     When Sun receives good aspects, one can have
partners for business. They will gain popularity,
command respect from others and maintain good rela-
tionship with business people and officers in decent
position.
     Sun, receiving favourable aspects, helps to avert
difficulties by arbitration or mutual consent, Generally,
                            40

Sun will be in 7, in the horoscopes of those who would
have been born at the time of Sun-set. They will, not
 have the mind to carry oh the litigation and put the
opponent to difficulties. Even though they mgy know
that they are sure of ultimate success in litigation, they
will try to end it by a compromise, even requesting the
judge to appeal to the opponent. Having Sun'in 7, one
can never be a " Shylock         Bad aspects to Sun in 7
show that it is difficult to enter into a compromise but
the litigation will drag on and finally the native will
miserably lose like "Shylock".
      Sun in 7, receiving beneficial aspects, portrays
 expansion in business, larger income, assistance from
 Government Officials and soundness in bank position.
^Adverse aspects threaten not only loss but. also
"difference of opinion, separation, litigation, etc.
     Sun in the Seventh House indicates fortune to the
younger brother through his wife and gain in specula-
                                                      1
tion and gambling.
      Sun in 7 throws many obstacles and does hot allow
niother to enjoy'much progress in life, especially when
it is afflicted by evil planets.
    Sun in 7 is favourable for the children to be bold,
resourceful, ambitious and feriterprising. They will
have beneficial colleagues - and neighbours. They may
make money by editing, publishing,-etc.
    Sun in 7 promises much gain to the native's father.
He will be successful and achieve his aim.-
    MOLES AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE

     Generally, predictions are offered from the presence
of the moles, appearing on the body of both male and
female. Since most of the people will be interested
more to. know the results than to hear the astrological
explanation, the meaning of moles will be given in this
issue and the explanation will follow in the following
ones.
     The larger the number of moles in one's body
(from head to foot, in any part) the greater will be
either the prosperity or adversity. Whether beneficial
or not is to be judged from the part of the body where
they are found.
      Round moles indicate good augury. Oblong ones
.show moderate gains. If the moles are angular, there
 will be mixed results both favourable and unfavourable
 ones. The deeper the colour of the mole, the mote
 pronounced will be the result. If there' is a very little
 growth of hair upon the mole, one will have some
 impediments or hindrance in one's undertakings; there
 will be delay but ultimate success. If there is profuse
 growth of hair on the mole, one _ will meet with dis-
 appointment in life.
    "The parts of the body will          be followed in
alphabetical order. .
Ankle: . Moles appearing in the ankle indicate an
      effeminate disposition. Males, having moles in
      the ankles, will be lacking in courage and push
    " whereas women having such moles will be bold,
      humorous and even active. For both male and
      female, the moles in the ankles promise success
      in their career; they will have most !desirable
      partner in life and earn name, fame and-reputa-
      tion. They will gain money and enjoy satis-
                               42

          factorily. There will be no disappointment in-
          love affairs.
Arm:       Moles on either of the arms denote that the
          person will have a courteous disposition, power
          to endure pain or confront danger, work very
          hard, be faithful, loyal and devoted to duty.
          He or she will be a pleasant and dutiful partner.
          They may have many obstacles, disputes, etc.
          Tn all cases, they will fight for the right to the
          last, and come out victdrious. Prosperity in all
          enterprises and happiness in every walk of life
          are .indicated. Generally, males having moles
          in the arm will become widowers at the age of
          forty. But in the case of ladies, these moles
          denote that they willbe-'survived by their partners.
          (They are termed as Dheerga Sumangalees.)
Armpits: It gives grace and charm to ladies and good
      countenance " to gents. They will grow richer
     and richer, become more and more kind and
      generous. Short journeys, editing and publishing
      will increase their income and improve their
      status. 'The relationship with brothers and
      sisters will be cordial. Salesmanship, agency
      and contract may be their profession.
Back:» Difficulty to get a degree in the examination^
      failure in ventures, defeat in all competitions and
      lack of luck are indicated by the presence of
      moles under the shoulder blades. If it is on the'
      shoulder blades or between them, unsteadiness
      in profession, very slow rise in life, non-co-
      operation with colleagues, enmity with, neigh-
      bours, unnecessary expense through journeys,
      etc., are indicated.
Belly :     One will have a desire to eat much. He will
          be a glutton. He will be addicted to drink ;
                    44

desirous of pleasurable pursuits from youth to
old age: neither impulsive nor rash; a little
cowardly and funky. A few will have success
only to a certain extent. Some will meet with
varieties of difficulties. Travels or imprisonment
is also     indicated.     There may be loss by
breaches, by sending goods by boats and ships.
The partner in life will be very pleasing-'and
desirable.; She will have sweet temper and bring
forth children. Mole in belly indicates that the
native's children will be painstaking and hard-
working, industrious and successful. They will
command respect and come up in life. They
may be called as ' Self-made \
      Some will be short-tempered. Easily, they
may get irritated and, by nature, will be ever,
quarrelsome. They may have mean mind.
They may be given to low debauchery because
they are exceedingly passionate and amorous.
They will not be steady. .They are not ambitious
and pushful.* Their fortune or .misfortune will
be only moderate/ They do not have many
friends. They do not care for others' views
about themselves.
     One or more moles on' the right breast will
show that the native .may be immoderate,
indulging to excess any appetite or passion' ahd
habitually idle or lazy and indisposed to exer-
tion or labour. They are given to drink {coffee,
tea or alcohol). They will be strongly attached
to the joys' of love. Many have sudden reverses
from riches to poverty. Misfortune in life is
not uncommon in their case. Luckily, the
partner will be calm, courteous, sober and
industrious. Children will be many and most of
them girls. They will have decent marriage with
                             45

    pleasant and prosperous husbands. They will
    prove to be dutiful and generous and will offer,
    all'comforts to their father who has the mole in
    the right breast The person will meet with
    unpleasant as well as undesirable accidents.
    There may be secret inimical activities, A few
    friends will betray, turn out to be rogues and
    scoundrels and will try to do harm. One mole
    or moles on the left breast will make one well-
    informed, wide-awake, hard-working and pains-
    taking. They will be very passionate. They
    would prefer walking. They will be having
    a loving and pleasant partner. Grand success in
    life is indicated with ■ opportunity to hoard
    money and have large number of children. Most
    of them will be boys. They make their fortune
- - by making journeys overseas, by having contact
    with foreigners, by exports and imports, etc.
        A.single mole or many under the breast indicate
   that the person will be talking or writing incoherently
   arid walking without any aim. ' His" disposition will be
   unsettled. He may be given to drinking. He will
   be very passionate and amorous having a propensity
   for love and sexual enjoyment; Men will indulge
   indiscriminately in the pleasures of love. In ladies it
  shows that they will be faithful, reliable, honest, true,
dutiful and sincere. They have strict regard for charac-
ter. . They are iridustrious. Fortune will
A very few fnen will have debts,- may visit
and also civil jail. Ladies will have easy
of labour pains and labour trouble,
will be much respected by all, as they will
richer and richer, leading a happy life
and
  Buttocks : Cashiers and confidential clerks with moles
        in the buttocks cannot be trusted. They are
                            46

       unreliable. They are very capable but will be-
       lethargic. Mole in this area signifies poverty.
Check : Moles on cheeks indicate industrious people.
       They will have benevolent and sober disposi-
       tion, They are solemn and grave. Inclination
       to amorous sports, courage and fortitude are
       attributed to the mole in either of the cheeks.
       They will be successful in life. They can neither
       become more rich, nor fall into poverty. Wife
       or husband will be ever-working. They will
       have only two children. The status of the
       children will improve to a good extent and will
       be much better than one who has a mole in the-
       cheek.
Chin : An amiable and tranquil disposition is shown
      by the mole in the chin. They will be industrious
      and highly desirous of travelling. They are
      'Venusians' enjoying the fruits of life in this
      world. They will have grand success in life.
      They will be fortunate. They may come by
      treasure. They will have friends in high posi-
       tions. The husband or wife will be most,
      accommodative and adjusting, brilliant and
       beautiful. They will lead happy harmonious
       lives. -They will have handsome children. The
      only one undesirable indication is that the-
      people having connection with foreigners or
      dealings in foreign countries may incur loss.
Ear :    Mole on either of the two ears denotes much of
        gain, and riches. ' It is applicable io both men
        and women. If the mole' were to be on the
        lower tip of either of the ears, it is not desirable
        to swim, in the sea or river. They have to keep
        themselves off the water. Mole in the tip-
        threatens one of death by drowning. A mole in.
        the top of the ear is considered lucky.
 LETTER TO THE EDITOR

                                         Bombay,
                                     26th June, 1963.

       Almost all my friends and acquaintances in the
 field of- Astrology, who have met me during the last 3
 months; have asked me whether I am aware of the
 new astro-Monthly byname Astrology & Athrishta.
 Everyone seemed to appreciate the contents thereof,
 particularly the articles explaining the methodology
 to be followed in casting and erecting a Kundali on
 scientific lines with pin-pointed accuracy using ephe-
.meris, tables of houses and other time-saving
 tabulations.
      Actually what is wrong with Astrology and Astro-
 logers of today is that, in North India, you. come
.across horoscopes with only Rasi Chakra whilst in
 South India you see both Rasi and Navamsa chakras,
 Bhava chakra is invariably never attempted. In my
 several books, I have been trying to impress that the.
 majority of the horoscopes in existence in India now,
 having been compiled based on graha-sputa culled
 from, vernacular Panchangas, do not check up with stan-
 dard ephemeris like Raphael's/Lahiri/Raman etc. and
 that the existing horoscopes are wrong to that extent.
 The Editor seems to be aiming at removing such defects
 in casting. It is very heartening that the mind of the
 Editor is working on the same lines as mine. The art
•of erecting a bhava chakra has been explained in simple
 language as mathematics are taught to students in a
 high school.
     From the way the magazine has started functio-
ning, particularly in teaching students on how to erect
and read a horoscope, I have every reason to assume
                            48

that the Editor is trying to teach the precious secrets
of Astrology for no more remuneration than that of
annual subscription. What one could expect to master
through a hundred books seems to be made available
in a series of issues.
      The Editor has promised to cover in future issuesr
almost everything under the banner "Astrology"
including the horary branch. Reading through his
articles has served as a Refresher Course for me, brin-
ging back to memory many forgotten processes. If
this is the sort of food jor thought that the Editor is
going to serve his subscribers, I would not hesitate to
become a Life Member for his Magazine.
     May he start reviewing books, giving first and'
immediate preference to those on Astrology, Palmistry
and allied subjects, open a section for clearing doubts,
of students in the field, publish an ephemeris for each
month giving thithies, Karana nitya yoga etc. so that,
his subscribers need not bother to look into vernacular
panchangas, as the magazine will become a reference
book.
    May the Monthly quite soon take its rightful:
place on the heels of India's No* 1 Astro Monthly.

               (Sd.) N. N. KRISHNA RAU, M.A.F.A.,
                 Vidya Visarada, Jyotisha Kala'a Nidhi Shastra
                         Ratnakara, Vaatsalya Sagara
                            49


BANGALORE YENKATARAMAN.
Editor, The Astrological'Magazine.
Bangalore - 20.

 ' ; J^have gone through the first four issues of the-
monthly. ^Journal' ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
edited ^by^'my good friend Jyotisha Praveena
Sri K. S. Krishna Murti. "The articles selected are not
only on topics of pure astrological interest but also of
popular appeal. It is . gratifying to find that
Mr. Krishna Murti, after his retirement -from Govern-.
ment Service, has whole-heartedly devoted himself to.
the promotion of astrological knowledge. I have "had
the pleasure of meeting him personally, and I was
impressed not only by his astrological scholarship
and ability but also by his sincerity.

     In India there are very few astrological periodicals,
 which aim at a serious study of the subject. I hope
ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA will be a suitable
instrument for the dissemination of correct astrological
knowledge and for enlisting public support in favour
of Astrology. If the present-standard of printing and
contents is maintained; I am sure the journal will
secure an honoured place amongst astrblogically inter
rested public of India. ■ I wish Mr. Krishnamurthi and
his journal every success.

29th .June, 1963                  (Sd.) B. V. RAMAN.
               NO MORE DOUBTS

     Question 1: On every birthday I gain, whereas
Tny friend loses on all his birthdays I was born at 6.15
A.M. on Sunday, the 16th September, 1928 and my
friend was born on Sunday the 24th August, 1930, at
7.05 A.M. We celebrate our birthdays ■ according to
our Nakshathra Days, and not according to the Calen-
dar Date. Why? G. Swami Bombay.
    Answer: You are born in VIRGO (Kanya) Lagna
with Sun and Moon occupying VIRGO (Kanya),
whereas your friend is born in LEO (Simha) Lagna with
Sun'and Moon in the ascendant.
     Generally, Hindus follow transit system, taking the
position of the Moon at the time of the birth, whereas
the Westerners follow, taking the position of the Sun
in the chart. But nobody takes into consideration
whether Moon is a malefic or a benefic by its Lordship
to the native. It is really a grave mistake.
      To you, Moon is Lord of 11, as such it promises
-pleasure, profit, meeting good friends and gaining in
transactions. On your birthday, the Moon transits in
 its original position. . It means that Lord of 11 transits
the position occupicd.by Lord of the Labasthana, i.e.,
the 11th House. So, you are destined to be happy and
 also gain on that day.
      But to your friedd. Moon is Lord of 12. 12th
 House indicates loss, difficulty through secret enemy,
■cheating, etc. Therefore, on his birthday when Lord
 of 12 transits its briginal position at the time of birth,
 he has to incur loss and experience difficulties.
     Further, Moon is called Mathi (the mind). It was
occupying Makam star at the time of your friend's birth.
It was under the sway of Kcthu, the descending node.
                             52

 So, Moon causes worry and the native cannot have
 clear thinking whenever Moon transits in Kethu's.
 constellation, Makam.
       It will be interesting for you to note that if you
i observe and celebrate your birthday according to
  Calendar Date, on 16th September every year, and your
  friend on his birthdate, then your experience will be
  quite the reverse ; because on your birthday, Sun will be
  transiting its original position. Sun is Lord of 12 to
  you as you are born-in VIRGO as ascendant. Sun has
  to cause worry due to some loss or other. But to
  your friend, Sun is Lord of the ascendant and he will
  transit in its original position on the day of his birth
  and offer him desirable results; asLord of one transits
  and conjoins its original position and he indicates,
  success in one's efforts, especially when it is strong.
      Moreover, when we judge the results by transit,
 system, it is necessary to consider in which constellation
 the planet was at the time of birth and to note the
 Lord of the constellation and his Lordship. One is to
 decide whether the Lord of the constellation owns a.
 malefic or a beneficial house. ^Planets, in the constella-
 tion of a malefic one, have to give undesirable results
 whereas those -in the constellation of beneficial planets,
 (by Lordship) will yield most agreeable ones.
      A. planet may be compared to a torch which-
 throws light. The Lord of the constellation may be
 compared to the slide which may be inserted between
 the torch and the observer. The slide will modify the
 colour of the light and the modified one alone will be:
 observed by the person. Similarly, planets may
 indicate a result according to their nature and Lordship
 but the Lord of the constellation modifies it and mostly
 the results of the Lord of the constellation will be.
 enjoyed.
      Question 2: What do you mean by Kendra
 Adbipatbyam? Are benefics, by nature, owning Kendra
 signs, always evil?
     What are the various results indicated by the
 Kendra Athipathees and planets in Kendras?—
 V. D. Calcutta.
       Answer: " Kendra" is aSanskirtword. It is also
  called Chatustaya and Kantaka. The sign in which the
  Ascendant (Lagna) Falls, the fourth sign counted from
  the birth sign, the seventh . sign from the ascendant
  (Lagna) and the 10th sign counted from the ascendant
  are termed Kendra signs or Kendra houses. It may
  also be used with reference to the position of the sign
  occupied by Moon and other planets. On such
^ occasions, it is said that a planet is in a Kendra to
  Moon or in a Kendra to any other planet. By that, it
  is meant that they are conjoined with it in the same
  sign, or in the 4th, 7th or 10th signs counted from the
  sign occupied by the Moon or any other planet.
     " 1. The exact longitude of the Ascendant in a sign
 or that of the Moon is not at all taken for calculation.
 But only the sign in .which the Ascendant falls is taken
.whether it is .zero degree 1 minute or 29 degrees
 59 minutes in that sign. So also when counted from
 Moon or any other planet, only the sign, which they
 occupied, will be taken for judgment and not the
 Bhava(the House). In most of the horoscopes, the first
 part of a sign may be included in a-House (or Bhava)
 and the second part of the sign will be in the next
 house (or Bhava). Whether the planet is in the first
 part or in the second part of the Sign and in whichever
 house it is, it is not at all' taken to find Kendrasthana,
 but only the sign in which the planet is found. For
example: There are two births. One is born in
Mithuna Lagna in the 29th degree and the other in the
                            54

 3rd degree in Pisces (Meena) Lagna. The former has
 Moon in the second degree in Sagittarius (Dhanus), and
 the iatter has Moon in the 25th degree in Gemini
 (Mithuna). In the first instance, Moon is said to be in
 the 7th Kendra even though the longitude is only 153
 degrees and in the other case, the longitude is 112
 degrees and Moon is said to be in the fourth Kendra.
      In the first, birth chart, as Gemini happens to "be
 the Lagna, the Keridra'houses are Gemini (the First),
.Virgo (the Fourth), Sagittarius (the Seventh) and
 Pisces (Meena the Tenth). In the second case, Pisces,
 the Lagna is called Lagna Kendra, Gemini the fourth,
 Virgo the seventh and Sagittarius the tenth Kendra.
       Meridian according to one's latitude of birth may
 fall in the neighbouring sign to the tenth sign; yet the
 tenth sign alone should be taken as the Kendra sign.
 For example, one may be born in the second degree in
 Cancer (Kataka Lagna) at Lucknow. Actually, the
 meridian will be 24 degrees (Meena) Pisces. But, yet
 Mesha should be taken as the 10th sign or otherwise
 called Dasama Kendra House and not Pisces (Meena)
 as calculations are made,'sign to sign and not house
 {Bhavd) to house.
       Therefore, when one counts the Kendfasthanas
  from Lagna, the Ascendant, the fourth sign, the seventh
- sign and the tenth sign are the four Kendra houses.
     Each sign has its own lord and the owners of 1, 4,
"7 and 10th houses are called as Kendra-Athi-Pathis.
 When one desires to assess the nature of a planet,
 whether it is a benefic or a malefic by owning a Kendra
 house, it is to be counted only from the Lagna and not
from the moon or any other planet.
     It is said that Jupiter (Guru), Venus (Sukra), the
 waxing Moon (Chandra) and the unafflicted Mercury
                                55

    (Budha) are the natural behefics and if they happen to
    own cither the first or the fourth or the seventh or the
    tenth house, they turn out to be unfavourable in their
    disposition. It is also added that if they occupy either
    the second or the seventh house, they cause untoward
    results and death to the native.
         It is further stressed that Jupiter and Venus are
    more evil than Moon and Mercury when they own the
    Kendra signs.
         The malefics by nature, Sun (Surya), waning Moon,
    Mars (Sevvai), afflicted Mercury (Budha), and Saturn,
    by owning the Kendra houses become auspicious and
-   will offer desirable results.
         To us, it appeals that Kendrathipatya Dhosha
    refers only to one's health and longevity, whereas it
    will not prove to be.either ineffective or undesirable as
    regards the results indicated by the houses they own.
         Ascendant denotes one's health and longevity.
    Lord of the Ascendant will invariably protect the
    native and improve his health and position provided
    he does not occupy the evil, houses, i.e., sixth, or eighth
    or twelfth. Lord of the fourth house indicates one's
    permanent possession, one's vehicle and one's mother.
    The seventh house shows the characteristics of the
    partner in life, the time of marriage, and other matters
    indicated, by the seventh house. The tenth house indi-
    cates one's profession, name, fame, reputation,
    honour, ancestral property, etc.
         When one does research, taking the horoscopes of
    people born in Mithuna (Gemini), an'din Virgo (Kanni),
    Mercury is considered to be a-Kendrathipathi by owning
    the "Kendra-houses, one and four for Gemini born and
    one and ten for Virgo ; Jupiter (Guru) becomes the
    owner of the seventh and the tenth houses to Gemini
    and fourth as well as the seventh houses to Virgo. „
                            56

  People born in Gemini generally take up a profession
 indicated by Jupiter being lord of 10 and prosper,
 especially during Jupiter''s Dasa. One is born in
 Mrigasirisha Naksbathra third pada when Gemini
 was rising in the east. When he completed 22 years
 during Guru Dasa, he appeared for the competitive
 examination and passed the I.A.S. at the.first attempt
 itself. He got married in his age of- 26 during Mercury
 sub-period with a bride born in Revathi Nakshathra
(ruled by Mercury in Jupiter's sign Pisces or Meena) ;
during Venus sub-period he had a child born in Visaka
Nakshathra (Jupiter's star in Venus sign, Libra). The
birth of the child coincided with his promotion.
During Mars sub-period he enjoyed another promotion
and during Rahu sub-period he had the opportunity to
go overseas. Horoscopes of such favourable experien-
ces show that Kendrathipatya does not make a planet
necessarily evil, offering only adverse and unfortunate
results, even though there are instances of death during
the Dasa or Bhukti of the Kendradhipathi.
      Many with their Ascendant in Virgo (Kanni) having
Jupiter in the second or in the seventh house have
 out-lived Jupiter Dasa. Similarly, many people born
in Aquarius (Kumba), Leo (Simha) and Scorpio
(Vrischika) have Venus in the second or in the seventh
house. They also enjoyed satisfactorily during Venus
Dasa and a few are now running Sun Dasa, a few
Moon Dasa, and a few Mars Dasa, etc. Therefore,
one need not unnecessarily entertain any fear when an
astrologer repeats the proverbial Kendrathipatiya Dos ha
of Jupiter and Venus and says that they are very evil
and one"will not survive those Dasas. They will be at
a loss if I hey come across with people out-living such-
so-called Kendrathipati's Dasa.
    A person born in Aquarius Ascendant (Kumba
Lagna) and PoorvabatraPatha(Puraltadhi) Nakshathra
                           58

third Pada (Kumba Rasi) was able'to have his own car
only when he entered into Venus Dasa (who owns the
fourth Kendra house) at his age of 52, whereas in the
earlier Dasas he could not own even a bicycle. How-
far Venus as Lord of four has denied him the beneficial
results which it indicates by owning the fourth house,
is for the reader's consideration.
      Another person born in Scorpio as Ascendant and
in Jyeshta Nakshathra' third pada gets married during
Venus Dasa Jupiter sub-period (Bhukti-apahara) and
Mercury sub-sub-period (anthara) with a bride born in
Poorvashada Nakshathra, Lord of which is Venus.
Has Venus as Lord of seven denied him the pleasure
through marriage in his Dasa? Also who is the lord of
the constellation Poorvashada. in which the bride is
born? Is it not Venus? "Yes, As lord of 7, it has done
its good, by offering the person a beautiful wife bom
in its own star.
     It is known that the' Lord of the eighth house is
the worst evil, but the exceptipn is that the lord of eight
cannot be a malefic if it also owns the Ascendan t or
Lagna (Jathakachandrika), when the eighth house indi-'
cates one's longevity, death, etc. When such an evil
can be warded off by owning the first house, why
will not Kendrathipatya Dhosha be mitigated if a..-
planet owning either the fourth or the tenth house also
happens to be the lord of the Ascendant or Lagna?
We are of strong • conviction that planets owning the:
Ascendant and not ill-posited can never do harm, but.
ever be a saviour" just as a father will protect his
child, whether he.is a butcher or a robber.
     It is-also mentioned that a planet becomes evil by
owning third or sixth or eighth or eleventh house; if
they have any connection with Rajayoga Athipathis
either as Lord of 9 or Lord of 10, they also will cause
                           59

beneficial results in their sub-periods, in the Dasa of
theRajayoga Athipathi. .From this, one can understand
that Lord of 10 is capable of rendering the evil planets
favourable. Lord of 10 is to offer the most desirable
and lucky-results causing Rajayoga. Therefore, if they
own any other Kendra house they not only offer benefi-
cial results indicated by the 10th house but also reduce
the evil attributed to the results of the other Kendra
house. For example, to Gemini Lagna, Jupiter is Lord,
of 7 and 10. He will invariably do good to the native
in matters relating to the 10th house and to a great
extent modify any evil indicated by the 7th-house, if
Jupiter is not afflicted otherwise.
     Therefore, only when they own the houses 4 and 7,
they may be considered as evil for one's health and
longevity and not to the other results denoted by the
4th. or the 7th house.



     (Results of planets occupying Kendra houses will
be discussed in.the succeeding issues).



  ..sThe' editor regrets for the following omission :—
      Bombay City
        Latitude                 . 18.55 North
        Longitude                  72.54. East
          CAN WE DODGE FATE AND
                    BE FORTUNATE

                               By
                          PUNARVASU
     (On 23-5-1003, Jyothieha Pravecnft Sri K. S. Krishnamurthi
delivered an address in the Rotory Club at Imperial Hotel, New
Delhi. The following ie the continuation of his speech published in
July issue.)
     To maintain robust health, to enjoy "life with a
good wife, to have enough wealth and to succeed in his
efforts without any delay, one ought to have had to his
credit many meritorious deeds ' in previous birth.
Disease, disharmony in married life, difficulty to save
money, dispute with all, depression due to delay in
achieving one's aims, desertion by close relatives, dis-
anDointment in one's expectations are the results of the
sin committed by one in the past. Hence, luck or no-
Kick depends on the Karma done.
    Karma can broadly be divided into three groups ^
"Dhruda Karma'', "Dhruda Adhruda Karma" and
" Adhruda Karma".
     Dhruda Karma means that one has committed
such a sin that he cannot be excused under any circum-
stances. Who will excuse one who has committed a
murder, or rape or denied shelter and food to the
invalid parents, cheated the colleagues or ignorant
youngsters and is ungrateful to his friends? Such
people are destined to suffer and reap the consequences
in full measure.
    Such people will have their birth at/a moment
when the owners of the 6th, 8th and 12th houses occupy
the Lagna and Jupiter (Guru).does not occupy Lagna
                               117

     (Ascendant) or be conjoined with Moon or aspect
     either the Lagna or Moon. Such a configuration of
     planets clearly portends that these sinners have1 to
     accept the punishment and patiently endure the
     penalty.
         The truth "Avasyam Anubokthavyam           Kritham
     Karm* Subha asubham" will apply.
           However, much these people try to ward off evil
      by adopting the propitiatory measures prescribed by
    • sages, they cap not escape but must undergo the trials
      and tribulations.
          Now, one may ask, .what about Newton's third
    Law? Snould not every action have a reaction? If
    one does follow such methods advocated by our ancient
    sages, will they not mitigate the affliction? In Nadis,
    the scholars and maharishis advocate shanthi to reduce
    the evil indicated by the malefic planets. If they are
    strictly carried out, can't one overcome the ill-fate and
    realise his ambition? When one does such good
^   actions,.will all of them go to waste? Will they prove
    to be absolutely useless?
        True: Every action has a reaction:       every good
    deed (done) will have a beneficial result.
        Suppose one has contracted "Filariasis" and
    frequently suffers from sudden high fever with ever-
    swelling elephantiasis. If he follows the strict advice
    of an expert and takes the available specified medicine
    can he not have the cure? This may be your question.
         If one has done Dhruda Karma in the previous
    birth, which is indicated in his chart by the absence of
    the beneficial aspect from Jupiter^ to Lagna or Moon,
    and the presence of Rahu, Kethu and Lords of 6 or 8 or
    12 in the ascendant, be must suffer; the medicine also
    must act; but he, the patient, cannot feel the benefit
                          118

of the medicine. If his temperature gets reduced from
105° to 104.5°, how much relief can be enjoy?
     A person has borrowed so much, that, in bis life-
time, he cannot return the money by instalments and
clear off the loan. The necessity to borrow the heavy
amount is due to the serious sin committed in the
past birth. He returns little by little, just as one does
Shanthi. If one returns monthly a hundred rupees to-
wards a lakh of rupees borrowed, how can he be at
ease? He will have the same pressure for money.
Similarly, these people who have done Dhruda Karma
must suffer without any appreciable redemption.
     Let us consider how many people commit murders
and similar unpardonable crimes. It may'be one im
25,000. (Take the average age--of a person. In thoso.
years how many murders are committed? Take the.
population—Work out the average. Roughly one ins!
25,000 will commit such a crime.) Hence, only one inu
25,000 will not enjoy appreqiable beneficial results "
to such an extent as to attribute the favourable results •
to the good actions or prayers or charities, etc., done
in this birth.
       Those who have committed pardonable mistakes
termed as Dhruda Adhruda Karma in the previous
birth, will have no malefics in the ascendant (Lagna) or
may have any evil planet in the Lagna receiving bene-
ficial, aspects from Jupiter (Guru, Bfahaspathi). These
people will follow the advice of their elders, adopt any
or many of the propitiatory measures and finally enjoy
desirable results.
     If a person had borrowed a very small amount last
year and if he returns it this year, he is chre-free. He
enjoys peace even from the day when he feels that he
can return the amount. . So also, a person is free from
worry and is hopeful even from, the day be decides to
                           119

do Shanti. His good action mitigates the evil and his
faith in Shanthi grows stronger and he will attribute
the avoidance of ill-fate to his present virtuous deeds.
These people would have actually committed some
crimes which are excusable.
     The other group will include those who would
have only thought of doing harm to another, but some-
how, they did not actually commit any crime. Such
of those people will have Jupiter inLagna or Jupiter
conjoined with Moon and be aspecting the evil planets
as well as Lords of 6, 8 and 12 in their horoscopes.
They need not do any Shanthi; they need not pray ;
they need not follow the advice of our sages in this
birth. They may even be miserly and be doing harm
to others. Yet, they will enjoy life to a great extent,
in this birth, which is not .uncommon.
       Suppose, one's father has left some millions of
 rupees in the bank and passes away. The son can be
 issuing cheques and he need not deposit any amount.
 The bank position is always sound. Similarly, meri-
 torious deeds done in the previous birth stand to his
 credit and his evil actions in this birth cannot deny him
 the benefits he is entitled to enjoy. Those persons will
 also take . knowingly or unknowingly such pre-
 cautionary measures as will help them to avoid
 difficulties. Taking prophylactic medicine and. not
 suffering from loathsome disease, issuing cheques
 which will be honoured, leading a pleasant and har-
«monious life with wife, enjoying good health and
 having fortunate and intelligent children are all due to
 their laudable action in the previous birth. Such
 people will be very few.
     Majority of people commit crimes or sins which
are pardonable. Hence, if they perform pujas^ or
religious rites or do homas or donate for a good cause
"or use gems or wear talisman or take a vow and visit
 holy rivers or sea. they will not actually suffer: but the
 circumstances may threaten them as though they have
 to face difficulties; they will follow the elders' advice;
 they attribute the warding off of the evil and enjoyment
 of agreeable results to such measures followed by
 them.
      A student has really answered the question papers,
just to get through the examination. He is afraid. He
has his own doubts whether he will come out successful
or not. He applies for a talisman and puts it on. He
goes to the temple and prays. He gives away his books
free to his junior, a poor boy,
     A month passes. The result appears in the. news-
papers. He is happy to note his number in the list
of successful candidates. He says that the talisman,
his prayers and charity brought him the success.
     The truth is that he is destined to pass: he is
destined to follow these propitiatory measures and he is
to think that these shanthis worked in the mind of the
examiner and forced him to give marks enough for a
pass. He does not realise that everything is under
the force of Fate.
     An astrologer will say that the student had been
running Rabu's or Saturn's sub-period at the time
of the examination and that he entered into Jupiter's or
Mercury's sub-period at the time when the results were
published. The malefics Rabu, Sam, etc., depressed
him. when the examination was on and when the benefi-
cial period commenced, he adopted the remedial mea-
sures to secure mental solace and finally success in the
examination.
    A gentleman had his first child in 1950, second in
1951 and the third in 1952. He thought that, by prayers.
                          121

"by sending away his wife for a year, he can avoid the
further addition. A. year passed. Wife came back
and joined him. In ten months she gave birth to twins
maintaining the average of one child a year. This
 gentleman got upset and consulted an astrologer who
predicted correctly the birth of three children, one every
year; separation of wife for a year and then in the next
year the birth of twins. He said that the above was
-due to his fate as indicated by the planets "and added
he would not have any more child. Really, he had
no addition thereafter. This example shows that
one may make all efforts, using his will power; yet the'
pre-ordained destiny finds a loophole and never fails to
work-
     One may try to commit, suicide; yet he will
survive if his end is not indicated by his birth chart.
One person was very unfortunate. He married an
arrogant, adamant and atrocious wife. He found it
impossible to get on with her. He decided to commit
suicide. He went to the sea to end his life. He was a
good swimmer. He thought that when he was about to
be drowned, the waves might carry him to the shore or
he himself would swim and save his life.
      He walked along the beach. He found a big tree
 very near the sea, in an unfrequented place. He took a
 long rope, climbed up the tree and tied the rope to the
branch which was overhanging the sea. While making
a loop at the other end, he thought that he would
suffer much when the rope would throttle his neck.
£0, he came home, took some intoxicating drug to
<leaden the pain." Again, a doubt arose "whether he
would die or survive. He became bold, took a revolver,
loaded it and walked straight to the tree. He adjusted
the rope, put on the. loop, gave a kick to the branch of
the tree and straight down he fell. While falling, he
fired. The rope gave a jerk. He missed the aim. The
                            122

 bullet, instead of hitting his forehead, severed the rope.
 He plunged into the sea and went so deep that he
 swallowed a few mouthfuls.. of the brackish Sea water
 which brought out the intoxicating poison. He swam
 the sea, came to the shore and became wiser than
 before. Look ! He tried to hang himself, get drowned
 in the sea, poisoned himself to die and also used his
 revolver. What happened ? He escaped from all these
 methods of committing suicide. Why ? Because, he
 has to live in this world until his end comes according
 to Prarabdha.
      Look at the following incident. A babe fell from
 the third'floor in Chembur, Bombay, by accident and
 escaped luckily. 'A child aged about one and a half
 years was taken by its elder sister and they were in the
 open terrace, in the third floor. A boy in the street
 was playing With a kite. The elder sister was standing
 leaning on the parapet wall and she was fully absorbed
 in looking at the kite. The young child suddenly
 kicked the elder sister who left her hold. The child
 fell down.
      At that time, a lady was returning home from the
 bazaar carrying a basket, full of straw to preserve
 mango fruits. What a wonder ! The child just dropped
 into the basket! The lady got alarmed and threw her
 basket down.
      She found a child; and thought that she was the
 ' Avathar of Guru* to this child to save its life.
       When the child is destined to live long, how can,
 it lose its life or meet with any accident ?
       A husband and wife' were travelling together in the
  very first compartment in a train. On the way, in a.
  railway station, the husband got down to purchase some
— eatables. Before he could fetch them, the train started
  and he got into the fifth compartment. The train had
                             123

 not gone even a mile, when it derailed and due to the
 accident, the first three carriages telescoped. Alas! the
 wife died instantaneously whereas the" husband escaped.
 What can we say for such events ? The fate of the wife
 is to meet with ah accident and die, whereas the
 husband is destined to live.
       A well-known Physician of Madras was ill and the
  medical experts who attended on him on 6-2-58 gave
  up hope. ' He was very bad then. They all expected
  his end at any moment. His sons in their anxiety
  consulted a learned astrologer, who gave in writing that
  upto 26-6-58 their father would be having indifferent
- health ; in May 1958 his health would be normal, and
  that he would attend a happy celebration in the family ;
  and that only on 26-6-58 he would pass away. It will
  be surprising for the readers to note that every one of
  these predictions came out very true.
         " It ia the Stars, the Stare above ue,
          'Govern our condition a"".            —Shakespeare..
       Just as a person cannot end.his life by com-
  mitting suicide or have a natural death, unless hi?
  end is come, so also one cannot live for one minute,
  more than what he is destined to.'
       The Emperor Pareekshit wentto the forest and was
  tired after hunting. He was feeling very thirsty. He
  got into Angiresh Rishi's ashramam. He was not.
  honoured and attendqd to, immediately by the Sage..
  He lost his temper. He took the dead skin of a snake,
  put it round the neck of the Rishi and returned home.
  This was found out by .the Rishis's son a little later.
  The boy cursed—rather predicted—that the person who
  committed this folly would die on the seventh day
  through snake-bjte. The King came to know of this
  curse. He tried to avoid it. Prayers to Lord Krishna,
  spending all the hours of the day by hearing Bhaga-
                                 124

   vatham alone, shifting his place of residence and
   taking all precautions, could nothelphim to outlive the
  time predicted. Dakshan, the King of the Snakes, bit
   him and thus ended the life of the Emperor Pareekshit
  •as predicted by the son of the sage.
          " Whatever betides, by Destiny it is done ; and
          Better bear like men than vainly seek to shun." —Dry den.
       King Vikramadhithya had many astrologers in
  his court. Of them, Mihira'was an intellectual giant
  and the most renowned. The King had a son. Mihira
  cast the horoscope of the Prince. Other astrologers
  also prepared the boy's horoscope.
        All of them gave, their opinion that the prince
   would have an anxious time at the age of 18. The
  most learned and wise Varahamihira who enjoyed the
  blessing of Lord Adhitya predicted clearly that the
   prince would be killed by a Varaha, i.e., a boar at a
  -particular hour on a particular date.
       He also said that.no human remedies could avert
  the danger and save him from the jaws of death and
  that this unpleasant incident could not be averted.
  The prince could not survive even if all precautions
  were taken.
         Years passed. The prince was maintaining robust
  "health. His surroundings were well guarded even some
 , months prior to the eventful day. On the morning of
    the fateful day, the King held a Durbar. A huge
   crowd was anxiously awaiting. The King requested
    Varahamihira to verify his calculations and confirm
   whether the fateful hour would be the same 5.00 P.M.
    that day as predicted previously. All had their own
   doubts, because every precaution was taken by the
T King. No wild boar or wild animal could have any
   -chance of gaining access to the Prince's palace which
   ^was very well protected by a huge army of vigilant
                           125

warriors. The prince was asked to take his seat in the
seventh floor, and all the stair-cases were fully guarded.
The King was confident that his son was safe. So he
asked Varahamihira how his son could die from
injuries inflicted by a boar, when none would be
allowed into the palace and especially when no animal
could enter at all. He again requested him to re-
consider deeply about his original prediction. The
King also declared that he would award the Emblem of
Royal Title " Varaha " to Mihira, if the prediction
should prove to be true, because the King wanted to
honour the science.
     Some minutes passed. Absolute silence prevailed.
The whole crowd was eagerly observing Mihira to
hear his verdict.
      Varahamihira said that death from the injuries
inflicted by a boar was predicted from the Prince's
horoscope without any shadow of doubt. That was the
penalty announced or indicated by the Planets in the
chart, according to the Karma done by the Prince in his
previous birth. He repeated that the results of the past
cruel Karma speak out through the planetary positions
at the time of. birth.
     Therefore one should be prepared for the worst in
spite of all possible efforts made to hoodwink Destiny.
     People, who gathered there, were confident that
nothing could happen in such -a strictly guarded
place.
     At frequent intervals a warrior was asked to give
information about the Prince's health. Reports that
he was hale and healthy were received regularly. At
5 P.M. one warrior reported that the Prince was alright
and the place was peaceful. Sometime later, another
soldier brought the sanie news. But Varahamihira did
                          126

not agree. He calmly said to the King that the Prince
had died at the stipulated time and it would be
advisable if they would verify. The King kept quiet.
Another soldier, after some time, came to the assembly
and said that the palace was calfb and there was no
disturbance at all."
     The King began to doubt the prediction and again
referred toMihira whether there could be any mistake
in his calculation. Mihira reiterated that he was already
dead at the moment he predicted. He mentioned
boldly- that the Prince was lying dead in a pool of
blood. Probably the watchmen and the companions
might not have noticed it. He suggested and persuaded
the King to go and see for himself. The King with
some important officers went up to the stairs, one after
another. The King reached the 7th floor. The com-
panions of the prince were deeply absorbed in playing
games and did not notice the arrival of the King. On
enquiry the King understood that the Prince had been
playing with them all along, and that only a little
while ago, he had'gone out" to the adjacent open,
terrace.
       Everyone quickly stepped out into- the open
  terrace. Oh God ! What a horror ! To their great
  grief, the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood.
  They found that his.body was injured by'the iron claw
  of an artificial boar. Thus God's will, according . to
  the Karma of the Prince, fructified, as Jndicated by
  the planets, without being averted by the efforts of the
  King and his subjects. Similarly, all events in our life
• are actually beyond our control and we have to submit
  ourselves quietly arid suffer the consequences of our
  previous Karma.
          (When the palace was constructed, the architect
     erected a flag staff and fixed an artificial boar
                          127

    made of iron and mortar at the top of the palace,
    even as all the towers in his kingdom had this Royal
    Emblem. To none, it had struck that this arti-
    •ficial boar might be the cause of the prince's death.
         The Prince just before 5-00 P.M. felt uneasy.
    He went to the open terrace to have fresh air.
    Exactly at 5-00 P. M. a strong wind broke the post
    into two and the boar fell down. It fell straight
    on the chest of the Prince. The injury was so deep
    that the terrible loss of blood resulted in his
    immediate collapse.)
         " Whosoever may be adopted Jo any
         Particular event'or pursuit will
         Assuredly have the Star indicative
         Thereof very potent in his nativity
      The prediction of the Soothsayer given to Julius
Caesar, warning hira that on 15th March there was
danger to his life, as Ides of March were there,
proved to be correct. Julius Caesar by staying at
 home could have avoided it. But this evil incident,
which is to happen, induced Brutus to persuade Caesar
and take him to the Senate. God gave one more
chance to Caesar to pay respect.to the prediction. On
the"way, Caesar again met the Soothsayer who previo-
usly predicted the danger. Caesar said to him, "Ides
of March are come," i.e., 15th of March was on and
the prediction did not come true. The Soothsayer
-calmly, and with confidence replied, "Ay! Caesar
but not gone, " i.e., 15th March was not yet over.
 Actually in a few hours, Caesar was killed by Brutus
and the end of Caesar could not be prevented by any-
body's will or action ; stars give correct indication to
 correct the non-believers.
      Here is another instance wherein a great astrologer
 tried to evade his misfortune but miserably failed.
                            128

      Johann Stoffler was a Professor of Mathematics at
 Tubingen. He learned astrology and took the horo-
 scopes of many old people and computed the exact
 date of their death. He was astonished at the correct
 working and accurate judgment.
      In the same lines, he calculated his longevity and
 also the cause of his death: He mentioned to his
 friends that he would die on a particular day, meeting
 with an accident. On that fateful day he invited his
 friends and stayed at home to evade the possibility of
 an accident.
        While they were chit-chatting, the professor
  disagreed with his friends. He .wished to prove that
  what he said was true. So he had to take a book from
  a high book-shelf. JFfe climbed up a ladder and seized
  a folio volume. Now the fate worked without any-
  body's knowledge. Both the ladder and the professor
. fell down and he got a deadly wound exactly at the time
  predicted by him, long, long ago. '
     Instances are many. One can l?e quoting many
more examples to impress upon the mind of the people
that the ultimate and final deciding factor is Destiny.
     Now let us consider how one can make efforts to-
evade the ill-luck or .misfortune and try to be fortunate.
Also, on a later date, one can attribute his fortune to
his efforts.
      Only an astrologer can suggest proper remedies.
The astrologer should be clever enough to offer the
advice, just prior to the commencement of the good
-period to the consultant, after thorough study of his'
horoscope.                           k

     A doctor establishes a good name and he is consi-
dered bctttf than another doctor because the fate of
the latter is to work hard, but can't have his services
                              129

 recognised, whereas the clever doctor's luck is to give-
 mostly the same medicine but administer it on the day
 prior the day of cure of the patient according to the
 patient's destiny.
      So also an astrologer can establish a name by
  advising his consultants either to pray or do some
_ santhi at a time when the evil in his life comes to an end
  and good is to commence.
      Here the astrologer contributes to two truths. One
 is that the santhi can ward off the evil; the other is to
 impress upon the mind of the consultant that there is
 nothing in the world except the noble science of Astro-
 logy,'which can throw light on one's future and offer
 him mental strength to stand the strain from the time
 of consultation till the fulfilment of his desire.
      One can make attempts to ward off the evil and get.
 rid of the difficulty in two ways. One is termed as
 Dhrishta Santhi and the other Adhrishta Santhi.
 Dhrishta Santhi includes^all the measures taken to-
 reduce the difficulty by a person who may be knowing
 what he does, when he can enjoy the result and knows
 what it should be.
      If one ails fromjr,summer boils and if he takes
 injection to destroy.the staphylo and strepto coccii,
 he knows that the-medicine administered is a specific
 for the summer boils and it will give him a cure.
      If one had borrowed money long ago and the bank
 give a pressure due to undue delay, he knows that the-
 worry will be over if he repays the amount.
       To offer apology for any wrong done to another, to
 re-establish good friendship and regain peace of mind,
 is also Dhrishta Santhi.
      But Adhrishta Santhi is one, in which one can-
 adopt any propitiatory measure without knowing how
                            130

it will work and bring about the desired result.       In
-some cases, it is mysterious and unexplainable.
       The method prescribed by our sages are many.
  They are : (1) by wearing Talisman, (2) by putting
  on gems, (3) by prayers, (4) by doing charity, (5) by
■ offering feast to others, (6) by fasting oneself, (7) by
  visiting holy shrines, (8) by bathing in holy waters,
^9) by doing Yogasana, (10) by selecting auspicious
  time and undertaking any enterprise then, (U) by
 working on Lucky days, (12) by using Lucky colours,
.or (13) by following Lucky Numbers, etc.
     To prescribe any of these methods for securing
satisfactory effect, to fulfil one's desire, the nature of
the difficulty is to be- ascertained. Then "only, one or
more of these may be suggested suitably.
      One may wish to have a child as he has none so far,
 though a few years have passed after marriage, or a few
children were born and they were short-lived; or one may
suffer much from any disease^or one may try to come in
;rank in any competitive examination; ottonemay love a
 girl and desire to marry her, or vice versa, or one may
try for a profession and wish to have early success; or
one may be sure that his poverty wi Jlnot end unless he
 gets a lump sum of money by w^^nf lottery, etc., or
have weekly gains in races or dailjrgains in card games ;
or one may try to come out successful in any election ;
or one may pray that the partner in life comes to his
or her senses and at least hereafter be accommodative
 and adjusting; or one may-wish that his business
 expands, improves and thrives, etc. Such of those
 who are actually suffering due to their fate, will try to
 make such attempts or Shanthi, to. get rid of the worry,
to overcome the difficulty and lead a healthy, happy
and harmonicus life with pleasure, profit, peace and
prosperity.
     ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
                  (FOUNDED: 1-4-1963)
                (Astronomy Made Easy)


    By Jyothisha Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


 VOL. 1.          SEPTEMBER 1963               No. 6.



                     CONTENTS
                                              Pago No.
     1. Gems and Their Infiueuce            ...- 1
    2, Talisman—Its use                           12
    3. Moles and their significance               10
    4. Sun in various house                       21
    5. Rising Moon or Moon in the Ascendant or
          Lagna                                   29
 ■ '6. ■No more doubts.                          37
   7.. ; Table of Ayauamsa                       44
    8. Erection of the Horoscopes                45
    9. Tables Chart—Position of Planets          50
.10.. Permanent Calendar                         51
 11. Monthly. Prediction (English)               53
 12. Monthly Prediction (Tamil)                  78
Is. Letters to the Editor                      105
         GEMS AND THEIR INFLUENCE

     Many people have the unshaken belief that they
enjoy extraordinary good luck and plan to get over
their misfortune by wearing precious stones suited to
them according to their horoscope, even though they
can neither' advance any scientific reasoning to the
sceptic, nor satisfy him.
     There are also a few who give away the precious
stones which they have in their possession, saying that
they are experiencing bad luck and facing difficulties.
They also cannot explain how the gems could bring in
loss and make their lives miserable..
     Some may attribute to the mysterious power of
the gem that their prosperous and peaceful time fol-
lowed inTmediately after their purchase of a gem, or
say that they are having all sorts of difficulties after
some months or years. No scientific explanation can
be offered by them to convince the non-believers.
    ' There are also some people, who after personal
experience say that they, are having pleasant days,
making good profits after they put on those gems which
were given to them by their friends who had adver-
sities from the time of purchase of those gems.'
     Thus, experiences are varied. Only astrologers can
explain .why. and how the gems appear to operate or
actually what they can do to the wearer.
     Stones and gems are not of one colour alone. The
spectroscopic analysis shows that white light is com-
posed of seven colours; violet, indigo, blue, green,
yellow, orange and red generally which we commit to
our memory by the word ' Vibgyor'. Actually white,
violet, blue, yellow and red are five distinct different
colours. The combination of violet and blue causes
                            2

 indigo. The mixture of blue and yellow brings out
 green. Orange is the result of the combination of
yellow and red colours.
      The planets radiate different colours. The Hindus,
originally, took into consideration the beneficial and
malefic planets of each individual and prescribed to
them those stones which will mitigate the affliction of
the evil planets and also bestow beneficial results to a
 satisfactory extent. In Jataka Parijatham, the author
Vaidyanatha Dikshita assigns the several stones to the
planets.
        Manikyatn Dina nayakasya Vimalam
            Muktaphalam Sitagoh
        Maheyasyacha Vidrumam Marakatham
            Soumyasya Garoothinathain
        Devijyasyacha Pushyaragam
            Asuracharyasya Vajram Saneh
        Neclam Nirmala Manyaycscha Gad hither
            Gotnedha Vaiduryakam
      Sun, otherwise called Dinakaran, rules over
manikyam or ruby; Moon over genuine pearl;
Mars coral; Mercury green emerald; Jupiter topaz;
 Venus diamond; Saturn blue sapphire, Rahu gomedh
and Ketu cat's eye.
      The prescription of the gem to each individual
 depends oh the knowledge and wisdom of the astro-
loger according to the disposition of the planets and
the Lagna in one's chart.
      Just as a physician makes a proper selection
 of the specific medicine to "give a cure for the patient,
 after thoroughly diagohising the disease, so also an
 astrologer has to exercise extreme care and caution to
select the appropriate gem after studying the horoscope
and' verifying its correctness from the past events in
-the.querist's life. One should not commit any mistake
and thereby bring ridicule to the science and give room
                            3

for the non-believers to criticise them. But, if the
choice of gem is correct and if it is prescribed in an
opportune moment, one will be surprised to note its
wonderful effects.
     Have we not observed the layman leaving the iron
keys in the hand of an epileptic person after he falls
down unconscious? How the fits stop immediately and
he recovers soon is inexplicable: Similarly, the evil
effects of planets can be put an end to, when the pro-
per time comes, by putting on precious metals, stones
and gems. Even though Varahamihira says that the
word geni is applied to elephants, horses, women, etc.,
on account of the expellence of their intrinsic merits,
yet here we are dealing only with precious stones, such
as emerald, diamond; etc.
     Some say that gems were born of- the bonds of the
demon Bala; a few say that they were born of sage
Dadheechi; yet others state that the gems are caused by
the characteristic qualities of the earth which-reason-
ing alone will apply to the mind of the scientists.
Varahamihira declared that presentation of such gems
also helps one to ward off the evil and bring favourable
results, with great speed. .

{!) Who will put on gems?
     Venus (Sukra) is the planet which rules over gems.
Mrig'asirisha and Revathi are. the two stars governing
gems. The sign Aquarius or Kumba denotes gems.
Hence, those to whom Venus is a beneficor the planets
either in Mrigasririsha or Revathi Nakshathra (con-
stellation) or in the sign Aquarius, will acquire
gems or receive them from relatives and friends.
As the chief governor for gem is Venus, those to
whom Venus is a benefic, use diamond; if Venus is
weaker than another planet connectedwith it either by
conjunction or by the aspect of Venus to the planet, or
                           4

by occupying either of the signs of Venus, Taurus
(Rtshaba), or Libra (Thulam) or by occupying Barani
or Pooram or Pooradam star, that planet will indicate
the opportune time of having the gem as also the
nature and quality of the gem.
     Some people will not and cannot use gems. People
who have planets in 6 or 8 or 12, to those planets
promising the possession of gems, will either dispose
of the gems already in their possession or will have
no mind to use them at all.
(2)   When can we have the gems?
     One is to find out from the horoscope:
        (a) according to Vimshothari Udu-Dasa system,
the period of the planets which promise the acquisi-
tion of gems according to the rules enunciated above,
and
        (b) whenever those planets receive beneficial
aspects from the lord of 11 by progression or by
transit, and also,
        (c) whenever the lord of 11 and those planets
which indicate the purchase of gems, transit in the
constellation of Venus and the beneficial planets.
     Generally, Venus indicates ladies, jewels and gems.
Venus is also the chief governor for matrimony. That
is why, mostly, ladies are presented with gems on the
occasion of their marriage.
    All do not get married only during Venus periods.
Each has liis or her marriage in all the nine planets'
sub-periods. In such cases, either the lord of the
second or the eleventh house or the lord of the bhukti
(apahara) who blesses the native with marriage, will be
connected with Venus.
   - A bride, at the time of marriage, during Sukra sub-
period gets diamond, and during Sreemantham (while
                            5

in the family way in the <th or 8th month of pregnancy)
gets bangles with red stones embedded or a necklace with
red stones. It shows that at the time of Sreemantham,
she is running Mars sub-period, as Mars indicates red
colour. Thus, one has to note which planet rules at
the time, and accordingly suggest the colour of the
gem.
     1 have heard from some ladies in whose horos-
copes many planets are in retrograde motion, that they
are lucky on those days, when they put on a particular
colour of saree, the same colour for the nails, eyelash,
in the forehead, ear-rings, rings, pins, etc. What do
we infer from all these?
     Each planet has its own colour. That colour, indi-
cated by the beneficial planets, is used on beneficial
days, due to the invisible cosmic force and thereby one
gains. But, on unfavourable days, the malefic planet
gives such a mind to the lady to put on such a colour,
belonging to the evil planet and attribute the loss to the
colour of the saree, etc.
     Let me narrate the experience of a girl who never
wears a red saree, but ever prefers green and white.
She ^0s bom when Virgo and Moon were rising in the
east. Her nakshathra was Hastham. She had a minor
accident through fire, when she was wearing red clothes.
She met with an accident and there was much loss of
blood, when she had a ruby ear-ring and red dress.
-Whenever she used the.red colour, she got irritated and
 would pick up quarrels with others, etc. But whenever
she put on green or white dress and used emerald or
diamond, she enjoyed her life with both social and
financial success.
    Her statement is correct. - For, Mars is lord of 8
in her case and will cause only evil results to her.
Mars represents red colour. So, she suffered whenever
                            6

she used red colour. But Mercury and Venus are her
benefics. So, the green colour indicated by Mercury.
(Budha) and white colour indicated by Venus, suit her
alright. She is lucky on those days, when she puts on
the dress and jewels indicated by these two planets.
Astrology alone can prove this phenomena beyond

     If thpusands of correct horoscopes are examined
by an intelligent, learned and wise astrologer, he can
sort them into a few groups and declare which colour
and gem will suit and which will be detrimental to the
native. On verification, people will be surprised to see
how it is possible for an astrologer to correctly read out
the minds of so many, their likes and dislikes and
their fortunate as well as unfortunate colours and gems.
     How to select the colour-and gem suitable to each
individual will appear in the next issue.
       Opinion ever differs. Never do people agree una- .
  nimously in any matter. Even with regard to the
  colours.assigned to the planets and also to the" various
  rasis, there is much difference of- opinion. Some say
  that a person with the Sun in a particular sign should
  put on a particular gem in order to ward off the evil
  influence and enhance his-popularity and prosperity.
  A few are of opinion that the. selection of the gem
  should be based upon the ascendant, its lord and also
  the planets occupying the ascendant. A few advocate
  such gems as are indicated by the weak planets and
  also those which are afflicted to counteract their malefic
' results.
       Our ..opinion is that we should take into considera-
 tion" the-lord of the Dasa and also that of the Bhukti
 (sub-period) Which runs at the time when one needs a
 gem to earn mental solace and also the time he or she
 has to run.
                             7

        The ascendant, is the most vita] point in the horo-
  scope. In Kala Vidhana, it is said that the day is
  stronger than the thithi, nakshatra is stronger than
  the day and lagna (ascendant) is stronger yet. Hence,
  in all cases, unless the ascendant is much afflicted and
  the moon sign is comparatively stronger and more
  favourable, the ascendant alone must be taken for
. consideration. Planets occupying the ascendant modify
  the results indicated by that sign in which the ascendant
  falls. The lord of the lagna, the sign which it occu-
  pies, its aspect to the ascendant and the various aspects
  it receives need deep consideration.
     Selection of the stone should be of that colour
belonging to the planet which forms favourable aspect.
Always avoid the colour of the weak and the afflicting
planet. Is it not advisable to approach a person who is
sincere and well-inclined to help one? Is-it not a folly
to appeal to" an enemy for assistance ?
      A poor man had a qualified boy seeking for an.
 appointment. He learnt that a junior. officer's post
 was vacant in an industry. So, he tried to make use
 of the influence of friends who could prevail on the
 Managing Director. But none of his good friends
 could bring pressure on the employer. On enquiry,,
 he came to know that the appointing authority was-
 very friendly with his - neighbour and would surely
 oblige him. But this neighbour was a little inimical
 towards the applicant's family. However, both the
 father.and the son met.him when he was in a happy
 mood and appealed to him to put in strong words to
 the Managing Director on the son's behalf, as their
 very living depended on it. The neighbour expressed
 his pleasure and promised his help.
     The reader may guess what the neighbour would
 have done. The enemy whom they approached, at.
                             8

once; gave a wire to his nephew, sent for him, asked
him to apply for the job, took the application form
personally to the Managing Director, strongly recom-
mended his nephew for the post, and got him appoint-
ted to it.
     The poor boy was highly disappointed, as he trusted
his enemy. Similarly, the planet which, by its lord-
ship, occupation and aspect can offer only undesirable
results, will continue to be evil even when efforts are
made to appease it.
    . It is not ebnvincing that one can enjoy beneficial -
results and avoid adverse ones by wearing the gem
indicated by such planets as are unfavourable to him
either by owning the sixth or the eighth or the twelfth
house or occupying those signs or situated in the
constellation of the lords of those houses.
   * " If a person complains that he is suffering much as
 he is running the period of the lord of the eighth
 house Ashtamathipathi—who will necessarily cause
 anxieties and difficulties by its lordship, how.can he
.have peace of mind by putting on the gem ruled by
 that evil planet ? If a planet is a malefic, then will not
 his colour also prove to be unfavourable?
       Another person runs the period of the same lord
 of the eighth house ; but in his chart, the lord of the
-eighth house receives good aspect from a beneficial
 planet which mitigates the affliction of the evil one.
 Now, if one considers a. while, he will be convinced
 that the gem indicated by the evil planet can do only
 harm and that indicated by the beneficial planet will
 ward off the evil, as the beneficial planet by its favoura-
 ble aspect mitigates the harm indicated by the evil
■planet and protect him.
    A school' boy walks barefooted, in the hot sun
between 1 and 2 P.M. during his tiffin time. He finds
                             9

it difficult to walk on the cement road or on the tar
 road but when he walks on the moist ground next to
the earthy drain he feels comfortable. As the sun is
fiery, is it advisable to ask the boy to walk on the
 hot surface or to instruct him to go along the moist
 path when alone the hotness of the sun cooled down
by the water in the moist ground, will protect the boy.
Similarly, the evil influence of the malefic can be
warded off only by a benefic and therefore, the gem
ruled by the benefic alone will overcome the evil in-
fluence, will save the person from trials and tribula-
tions, and not that ruled by the evil planet.
      Therefore the beneficial planet to a horscope (e.g.,
the strong planet causing Neecha Banga Raja Yoga
to the debilitated planet or. beneficial planet owning
the houses I, 9 and 10, forming favourable aspects to
reduce the evil effect of the malefic one), is to be consi-
dered for the choice of the gem. Also, if the consul-
tant is aged enough to mention his defects and
difficulties or his desires, accordingly one can select
the gem, knowing the effects of each gem as is
found in Orient's Manual of Cartomancy and other
literature.
      Ruby : Ruby can be used by one who wants confi-
dence and courage or any coveted appointment with
authority and power. It also resists blood poisoning,
improves health by increasing immunity, etc. It can
banish melancholy and avoid accidents.
     Diamond;    Diamond offers protection against
dangerous diseases, charms, enchantments, etc.      It
promises a happy and harmonious wedded life; a
diamoud necklace ensures easy and safe delivery. It is
used to give fertile imagination to the artists and
poets.
    Emerald; Emerald helps one to have larger in-
come in his business. New friendship will be formed
                           10..

and fresh contacts will be made. Short journeys will
be helpful and successful. Emerald acts as a tonic for
the central nervous system; there will be quick grasp,
retentive power and reproductive ability. One can
maintain chastity. It protects against hysteria, epilepsy
and other nervous breakdown. (For the information
of our readers, I may mention here that pure emerald
can be had from K. Wadia, Diamond Merchants,
Grand Road, Bombay and also from Vummidiars,
Madras).
      Pearl : Pearl used in the necklace helps one to
preserve chastity. It improves one's imagination and
develops talents in music, painting arid dancing. Those
working in the Navy can use pearls for advancement in
life.
      Coral : It offers-protection against thunder, light-
ning, devils, epidemic diseases, etc. It avoids acci-
dents and surgery. People in the Police or Military
Department and surgeons can use coral with advan-
tage. It gives the wearer position, power, popularity
and prosperity.
      Yellow sapphire: . This promises peace, popula-
rity, prosperity and pleasure. Politicians and Miriis-
ters can use either pure gold or sapphire. (If copper
is used with gold to set up sapphire, it offers not only
prosperity but also avoids all the undesirable evil
results. In this aspect, honestly one should say that
the 14-karat gold will be a powerful preventive of evil
to the person who puts it on. Enmity will end, wast-
age and extravagant expenses will be reduced, accidents
can be avoided and investments on other possessions
will get increased. One can enjoy Guru Mangala
Yoga.)
      Blue sapphire.:    This brings fortune; avoids
 labour trouble. One can gain through mine products
 or unexpected sources by way of legacy, insurance, etc.
                               11

     Agate : Agate is good to keep blood-pressure
normal; it protects the wearer from dangerous infec-
tious diseases and cures the bites of venomous
creatures.
      Amethyst: This can be recommended for those
who suffer from the action of devils and ghosts. If
this stone is steeped in water for some time and if the
water is usfed for flrinkirig, it is . said that it cures
sterility.
     Beryl : . Keep it in a tumblerful of water daily and
drink it. Also give a tumblerful to the one whom you
love. The mutual affection existing between them will
ever increase and the couple can lead a happy harmo-
nious life.
     Topaz: For those who desire to regain what they
bad lost and also to en joy-universal sympathy, this is
strongly recommended.
        Cat's eye :   This gives wisdom and gains in gamb-
ling.
     Gomedh : Gomedh is used by those who wish
victory over enemies and improvement in business.
     First, let us "mention the opinion of others and
finally we will suggest that which our. readers are to
follow to enjoy desirable results attributed to the gems.
Aries      Amethyst, Diamond. Libra          Diamond.
Taurus     Emerald.                Scorpio        Topaz.
 Gemini    Aquamarin .             Sagittarius Carbuncle
                                         ^     Turquoise.
 Cancer    Emerald.             Capricorn Moon stone.
Leo        Ruby, Dimohd;        Aquarius.        Sapphire.
 Virgo     Pink Jasper.         Pisces           Crysolite.
                                         (To-be continued.)
             TALISMAN—ITS USE

     The easiest and the most effective method to ward
off evil and enjoy good results is to put on a Talisman.
It can be used by both men and women, rich and poor,
young and old. There is no restriction. It will be
effective in all cases.
     Money can make many things. But money alone
cannot offer peace of mind which everyone wants and
none gets. But if one has done enough of meritorious
deeds, then God, according to one's fate, offers every-
thing as well as peace. God alone can do.
     Talisman is, no doubt, manufactured by the gold-
smiths. But the mantravathis pray and gain enough
influence. They pray for others also and present
the talisman to those who wish to have it. It is
capable of fulfilling one's desires. How it works may
be a mystery to the scientists, as they cannot see the
action of the Talisman.
      If a man is in debts and suffers only because of
that, he approaches a wealthy person and applies for
relief. The rich person issues a cheque for an amount
which will clear off his loans. The cheque is honoured.
The man in difficulties is freed from debts and
consequent sufferings. Similarly, wearing a Talisman
will grant success to the wearer.
     Talisman is prepared by Thapaswees and expert
spiritualists. They will have .enough of Tapobala or
Taposakthi. This Taposakthi is ethereal energy.
When a Talisman is prepared, a little of this ethereal
or magnetic force is transferred to it. The force
cannot be seen. ' Can we see gravity and magnetic
force? Are they absent because we can't see?' So also
this force cannot be. photographed or seen. But the
                          13

talisman is visible. It has the power of conducting the
Tapobaia, charging the man or woman who puts it on
with its mysterious magnetic power.
     Talisman' may be compared to a money-order
form. Just as one sends money by post, the man with
enough Tapobaia sends the force through talisman^
Postman delivers money, we receive it and derive the-
pleasure out of it. But talisman releases the forces
(which we can't see but can realise from the results),
tones up the mental system, and brings out success
in efforts and offers peace.
     The people with so-called modern scientific ideas
may scornfully reject the accumulated wisdom of the
ancient maharishis as it does not fit into their
standards. They do not take into consideration that,
maharishis were honest, respected and truthful
and handed down to us many, mysterious ones for
our welfare without any selfish motive. As we are
unable to explain it scientifically how it happens, we
reject it. If they were to be alive now, they will, pro-
bably, explain it, in such a way that everyone would be
fully convinced.
     Whether one is'convinced or not, the fact is a fact
that the talisman prepared by an able expert with
enough of Tapobaia and worn by a person, will surely
put an end to the wearer's worries, give him mental
strength and offer him those results which he desires to
enjoy.
     But those who want to possess a talisman have to-
be careful in getting it from a person who has really
much of Tapobaia. Then alone, it will work.
Suppose, one has a small amount at his credit in the
bank, and issues a cheque for a larger sum. How far
will it be helpful? Similarly, the spiritual-worth of
the person who issues the talisman needs much consi-
                             14

 •deration and verification. One should not be carried
  away by self-advertisements.
       Talisman is effective for all purposes, eg., success
 in examination, marriage, health,           progeny, legal
  dispute, lottery, races, betting, game of cards, mental
  strength, etc.
       How, one may ask whether -it will be possible to
  evade misfortune by using the talisman. Also one
 may add whether one will continue to be unfortunate if
 the talisman is not worn."
       Some of those who enter into a good period alone
  will desire to have a talisman and will have an effective
 talisman, from a gentleman who has Tapobala.           The
 time of procuring the talisman will coincide with his
 good time. It is not at all true that all those who do
 not use talisman will have sufferings; a few of them
 may enjoy life to their satisfaction without any
 talisman. The only difference is that those who use
 the talisman can be confident that their good time has
 come and that there may be no more evil. But those
 who do not use it. cannot be optimistic about their
 future, because it may or may not be desirable. The
 doubt is there. If a man knows the bank balance and
 issues a cheque, he is confident that it will be honoured.
But, without knowing the balance at bank, if he issues a
 cheque, he will be in doubt whether it will be
 honoured or not. Just as it is wise to know, the
"balance before issuing a cheque, so also the use of a
talismangives courage and confidence that there is no
more evil to the wearer.
       As everyone wpuld prefer to have peace and con-
fidence to take risks, it is advisable to have Talisman
from a worthy God-fearing person.
       Mantrakshathai, Holy-ash and Kumkum given by
        sages act^ similarly by warding off evil and giving
relief to the worried and .solace to the depressed. There
                          15

are innumerable cases of patients in the hospitals who
receive periodically, such powerful and most effective
Akshathai from His Holiness Kanchi Kama Koti
Peetadhipathi, Jagadguru Sri Sankarachariar Swamigal
Avargal, and mysteriously have their ailments cured
in a short period. Mental strength and material gains
are promised by such talismans provided that he
who prepares and blesses them has much of Tapobala.




■Jagadeuru Sri SANKARACHARIAR SWAMIGAL AVARGAL
       MOLES AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
                 ' (Contd,)
      Elbow: A mole on the elbow indicates that a
person will be restless and unsteady. His words cannot
be relied upon and one will be disappointed if one
believes him and acts. He will be easily carried away
by false reports. Desire for frequent travelling and
dissatisfaction in the married life are indicated. One
cannot expect much of prosperity; but in most cases,
one may rise just above the condition in which he is
born. He will venture on unpleasant enterprises
and ultimately earn ill-repute and discredit. The part-
ner in life cannot contribute to his happiness and the
children will cause troubles due to their attempts to
fulfil their desires against the wish of the parents. The
mole may be on either elbow: this is applicable to both
males and females.
    Eye: An honest and steady disposition is indica-
ted by the mole on the outside corner of either the left
or the right eye. The individual will be inclined to
pleasurable pursuits, and lead a life with pleasures and
miseries alternating. It is likely that he or she will
meet with a violent death.
     Eye-brow : One will be always active, courageous
and persevering with confidence if the mole is. on the
right eye-brow. The individual wM,l lead a successful
domestic life with sound financial position. Both in
war and business, he can expect larger income and
improvement in position. He or she will be lucky to
have an accommodative, adjusting and agreeable wife
or husband and lead a happy and harmonious life with
a large family. They live to an advanced old age. It
is likely that they are far away from home at the time
of their death.
                             17

      If the mole is on the left eyebrow, it indicates that
 the native will be inclined to debauchery and drink.
 It also portrays poverty or confinement in any one
 place of imprisonment. Disappointment in under-
 takings will be common. Children will be disobedient
 and self-centred. The partner in life cannot adjust and
 contribute towards peace and happiness.
     Finger: If the mole is on the middle and the
 longest finger, it shows that the person cannot be relied
upon nor can one fathom the depth of his mind. He
may turn out to a thief or he may have underhand
dealings. Anyhow, he will be a dishonest person.
•(Moles in other fingers will be found in the Chapter
   Palmistry " which will appear later.)
      Foot; A dull, lethargic, gloomyjand lazy disposi-
 tion is indicated by the mole on the foot. The person
will have a weak mind and he will satisfy himself by
simply .looking at the girl or talking to her or possess-
ing photos, etc. He will prefer solitude. Sickness and
unexpected difficulties will depress the person off and
on. He will be unfortunate in choosing a partner for
life. ■ The individual and the partner will disagree con-
stantly and their married life will be miserable.
The mole in the foot does not compensate by giving
at least obedient and lucky' children. Even then, they
will add to the troubles.
     Forehead: The person will be ever alert, active
and industrious. He will enjoy much riches, great
honour and happy married life. One of his children
will be famous and well-placed in life. The person
will be doing business most successfully and will ex-
pand it, if the mole is in the centre of the forehead or
on the right side of the forehead.
     But if the mole is on the left side, the results will
be opposite to what is said for the centre of the fore-
                              18

  head, i.e., the person will be lazy, a failure in life, and
  a disagreeable partner. He will meet with unexpected,
  loss, will be of ill-repute and none of his sons wilt
' come up in life satisfactorily.
      Groin : If the mole is on the left or the right side
 of the groin, the person will suffer from sickness. If it
 is on the right groin,, he will .enjoy riches and earn
 honours, but the mole on the left groin indicates,
 poverty and always pressure for money.
      Gullet: The person will be courageous arid by his
 own efforts he will earn a name and distinguish himself
 from others. Even if he is born in a poor family, he:
 will become.rich receiving assistance from good friends.
       Hand: If there is no mole in the fingers but only
  on either the left or the right hand, both for males and
 female, the individual will lead a comfortable life
 with health, wealth and enough number of fortunate
..children.
      Heart: The person will be wicked, poor, hasty
 and headstrong. He will be inviting trouble by his
 own action. He will have no mercy. He should not
 be offered the Manager's post in any charitable institur
 tion as he will have no heart, or a high position in an
 office as he will have no sympathy for his subordi-
 nates to increase their emoluments or redress their
 grievances.
      Heel: .The person will be active and successful
 in his undertakingis if he is a hard task-master.. No one
 will have the courage to appear before him, and the
 person will be spoken ill of behind his back.
      Hip: The person will have moderate success in
 his official career, but will have many children. Mole
 on either the right or the left hip indicates content-
 ment, industrious disposition and honesty. He may
                            19

bave some troubles. Yet, be will face them with
courage and confidence and come out successful.
      Knee : If the mole is on the left knee, the person
■will be hasty and passionate. He will be given to the
pleasures of Venus (Sukra). Good success in under-
 takings, extravagant expenses, fulfilment of desires,
 rich marriage and only one child is indicated by the
 mole on the left knee. If it is on the side of the knee-
cap, he will have many children. The mole on the
 right knee shows that he will be honest, amorous and
 industrious.' It shows that he will choose a good
 partner, will have many good friends and will enjoy
■success in pleasurable pursuits. He will have many
friends and beautiful as well as dutiful children.
     Leg: .If the mole is either- on the right or the left
leg, the person will be extravagant and may face diffi-
culties, now and then, throughout his life. He will
surmount them all. In youth," he may undergo much
suffering and it is likely that he will feel al though he
is leading a life in the jail. In adult age, he will be
fortunate, lead, a pleasant life with an agreeable partner
who will outlive the native. Many children will be
"born but half of them may pass away during the life-
time of their parents.
     Lips: The mole may be on either of the lips. The
person will be sober and industrious. He will be suc-
cessful in his love.affairs.: He will be fortunate in life-
and will rise far .above the other members of the
family in which he is born. He will establish a good
name and command much respect from others. It is
likely that his attempts may not be fruitful at the begin-
ning but, with perseverance and patience, he will come
out victorious.
     Mouth If the mole is inside the mouth, the person
will have a delicated appetite, and benevolent tempera-
                           20

ment. He wiJl be given to the pleasures of love. He
will amass wealth and lead a happy life with a pleasant
partner. He will have a very limited family and his
children will be handsome and lucky.
    Navel: A mole in and around the navel of a
female indicates a good husband, many children and
much riches. She can enjoy her life without any
misery or trouble. It indicates a successful and pros-
perous life gaining recognition of a lasting nature
from society. The native may travel freely and will
meet with a friendly and cordial reception everywhere.
     If the mole is in the navel of a man, he will be
lucky in all his undertakings and generally successful
in all affairs of life. Financial gain is strongly indi-
cated. He will become richer and richer by starting
new ani original enterprises. Friendship of a benefi-
cial nature will often result. It indicates that he will
have good health and a son who will be distin-
guished.
       SUN IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE
    Generally for people bom between 2 and 4 P.M.
Sun will be occupying the eighth house.
     Eighth house indicates the native's longevity,
the kind of death, worries and difficulties, the property
of the d«ceased, wills and legacies, the share of profit
through partner in business, dowry through wife
and other income through her, sickness of brothers
and his enemies, mother's gains with least effort and
father's loss or stay outside or hospitalization, the un-
earned wealth of the native as opposed to wealth
acquired by self-exertion.
     Sun in the eighth house does not contribute for a
strong constitution, unless it, happens to be its own
sign (Leo—Simha). There may be a" wrestler or any
other strong person having Sun in the eighth house.
His constitution is due to his ascendant, lord of the
ascendant and the various aspects to his lagna.
Further, he would not have to run the period of Sun.
Generally, persons having Sun in the eighth house
pass a critical period in the middle of their life,
especially when the dasa ruled by Sun operates.
     If the final dasa of a person is ruled by Sun, he
will meet with valiant death due to heroic deeds ; for
example, one may serve in the fire brigade and he may
lose his life by burns, while trying to save the lives of
the inmates in a building under fire:
      Sun in the eighth house threatens that the native
may become a widow or widower during the period or
sub-period of Sun if there is no mitigation for this
affliction. Jupiter's beneficial aspect to Sun promises
that he or she will be survived by the partner.
    Sun promises a legacy or a gift from a person
 olding a high position in life superior to himself. It
                           22

is also likely that he may gain from his relatives (such
a gain can be expected from persons born either on a
Sunday or in Simha Lagna or in Karthikai, Uthiram
or Uthirashada star, all ruled by Sun).
      Even though Sun has not much dignity- in the
.eighth house, it is a beneficial position for "occultism
 and matters connected with the deeper things of.
life.
     It promises gain through marriage or by linking
his fortune with another in a business, as partners or
co-workers. It is also clear that the native should not
take the sole- responsibility upon himself and that he
would do better in carrying undertakings with others.
     If Sun does not own an evil sign but happens to
be lord of six or eleven, one can expect dowry
through his wife at the tinie of marriage, if the
marriage takes place during Sun's sub-period. Other-
wise, whenever Sun period runs, one can look for
gains through her or her" relative. Sun in eight
threatens ill-health to brothers and also difficulties
through enemies.
     Mother may be making attempts to get money by
way of lottery, prize bond, etc., and during Sun's sub-.
period (if he happens to own the second house or the
eleventh house).
     Father may incur expenses far in excess of income
or he may be transferred or he may fall ill and undergo
treatment in a hospital.
     Sun in the eighth house denotes service in medical
or chemical or insurance companies where "security of
service is assured.
    Sun in the ninth house       Ninth house^- denotes
Father (according - to Hindu sages), the meritorious
deeds done in the previous birth, thereby to gain with-
                            23

  out much effort in this birth, to receive Providential
  help at least in the last moment, Bagya, higher studies,
  Hong journey, as opposed_ to short journey indicated by
  the third house, profit and success through voyages,
  connection with foreigners, temples, churches, religion,
   science and vast learning, philosophy, Dharma etc.
'(' Foreigners ' need not be living in a foreign land and
 ■one need not go to their place and come in contact
  with them ; it means that one can have the contact of
 a stranger who is neither related nor already known.)
      By sun in the 9th house it is meant that Sun
occupies the 9th house in Bhava Chaki;am and not by
•sign ; by sign it may be in 10th but if it falls in the 9th
 house, one is to consider it as though it is in the 9th
house, even though the results of Sun will be modified
 by the lord of the sign in which it was at the time of
 birth ; e.g., if Sun were to be in the beginning of
•Capricorn for a native, born in the Aries sign with
his ascendant in the 24th degree, then, even though
Sun is in the 10th sign from Aries, yet it is in the
^th house. So when the reading is to be made, one
 is to consider that Sun is in 9th house and its
results are modified by Saturn, the lord of the sign
 Capricorn, and not Jupiter who is the lord of the
 sign Saggitarius where the 9tb cusp will fall. One has
to look for only beneficial results, especially during the
joint periods of these two planets and, whenever, by
 progression and by transit, those two planets form
again and again f avourable aspects.
      Many authors have mentioned that Sun in the 9th
 houseus a danger to father. It does not mean that
 immediately after the birth of child, the father will
 pass away. After having lived his age as indi-
cated by the father's chart when this child runs the
period or sub-period of Sun, father's end will coin-
cide.
                            24

     Beneficial aspects to Sun in 9 always protects the
native even during adverse periods. Someone .will
render him valuable help and save him.
     Suppose a person has been taken to the police
station along with a few others under suspicion; he
who has Sun in 9 will find an influential officer seated
along with the Inspector and will plead on his behalf
to save him from further troubles.
     One may be pickpocketed and stranded in a
street. Within a few moments he will meet his good
friend who will oblige him immediately so that his
other programme will not be upset3 even though loss,
due to some other planetary combination, is a loss. Or
he who pickpocketed would be immediately caught
redhand and without taking any legal steps, money
may be recovered from, him. He who catches the
thief is the " Avathar of Sun " to him.
     Sun in the 9th house indicates that the native will
have professional studies and be studious. Even
though he may discontinue his studies and enter into
service, he will have the inclination to study further,
and when opportunity offers he will avail of it and
qualify himself.
     Sun in the 9th house receiving good aspect from
lord of 12 indicates that the person will go overseas
and come in contact with strangers and foreigners. He
will enter into" a contract with them and he will have
good reception in the foreign land.
      If Sun rules the second or the 7th or. the 11th
 house and if it is in the 9th house at the time of birth,
 the native will marry a bride born in a family, not
.already related.
     Sun in the 9th ffiouse shows that the native may
get into service in churches or in the Religious Endow-
                            25

ment Board or he may take up philosophy or religion,,
as his subject.
    Sun in the 9th house shows that his younger
brother may have litigation with him during the period
of Sun or that his brother may get married.
    Sun in the 9th house is a strong indication that the
mother may fall ill or raise a loan.
     Sun in 9 in a person's horoscope is propitious for
his children to gain in speculation or .make money in
cinema, opera, drama or in share business.
     Sun in 9 invariably gives a younger brother to
one's wife or partner. Whenever Sun sub-period
repeats, wife will be making short journeys or gaining,
money by editing, publishing or writing articles or by
taking agency contracts etc.
      Sun in the 9th house lowers the vitality of father-
especially during the joint periods of Sun and the-
planet which forms evil aspect with it.
     Sun in 9 indicates a very promising position to the
elder brother of the dative as he can fulfil his desire
and realise his ambition during the sub-period of the
native; "
     Sun in the 9th house makes one broad-minded and
gives very deep feelings with regard to religion and
spiritual affairs. Thoughts will be lofty and ennobl-
ing; not bound too much by conventionality. The
native will be successful in law and foreign affairs. He
will be god-fearing, pray regularly and do Homa etc.
He will donate liberally for the renovation of the
temple etc., and do charity. *
     Sun unafflicted in 9 indicates that the native will be
grateful to his preceptor or Guru. But if it is afflicted
by Saturn, Mars and Venus he will have secret connec-
tion with his Guru's partner.
                            26

       Sun in the Tenth House: Tenth house denotes
 iionour, respect, reputation, authority, power, worldly
standing, public life and popularity, profession,
 permanency and promotion, morality, ambition and
 advancement, one's business, patrimony, employers
and superiors, king, the orders issued, connection with
 people in high rank and position, younger brother's
"legacy or longevity, mother's partner in-business or end
-of life, ill-health to children, wife's permanent posses-
 sion, father's self-acquisition and the loss to the elder
-brother or his admission in the hospital etc.
      The influence of Sun is to give vitality and fire to
 the whole nature physically, mentally and also
 materially. It contributes .towards self-reliance,
 strength of will and dignity; it gives ambition and a
•desire to achieve worthy results, to be at the head of
 affairs, organize and manage, take up responsibility
 and work. The social side will'be well developed."
 It indicates the native's love of comfort, pleasure and
luxury. -
      Sun will be in the 10th house between 10 A.M. and
  12 noon. It is said to be very strong in the 10th house
• (Digbala).
     Popularity and prosperity are promised by Sun in
the 10th house. It offers good health and immunity
against infectious diseases. One can have promotion
and authority during the joint periods of Sun" and the
planet which forms'favourable aspect with it. Rever-
sion also should be expected whenever,tbe joint period
of Sun and the afflicting planet operates. It Ts very
common that people are- made permanent in the' posts
they are holding temporarily. Security of service and
soundness in business are assured. •
     If        olanets also contribute, the native will
                            27

hold a responsible position, like minister etc.   He will;
be successful in public life.

     Whether or not one will maintain a sterling
character, depend on the aspect which Sun receives,,
especially from Saturn, Mars and Venus. In some
cases, the person will be loving a bride, born in
 another caste and finally- during the joint period of
Saturn and Sun, the celebration of the marriage will
take place with or without the approval of parents and
well-wishers. In a few cases, the person will be adamant
to marry one against the wish of their close relatives,
and friends. Sun as an indicator of matrimony by
being connected with lord of 2 or 7 or 11 shows that:
the bride or partner may belong to his or her own place
living in the same town, or street or even a co-tenant
in the same house.

     Sun as lord of 12 in 10 indicates that one may lose
by theft and the substance taken away by thieves (in.
horary astrology) is to be found from "10th house.

      Sun in the 10th house receiving good aspects and
the lord of the sixth house also well aspected alone
should be taken for promotion. If the 6th house, and
its lord were to receive evil aspect and the 10th house
receives favourable one, then, instead of getting promo--
tion, he will understand that his maid-servant has
given birth to a child, because, 6th house shows both
one's service conditions and also the maid-servant
serving him. If thie 6th house and the lOth house both
receive good aspects, it shows increase in income and
improvement in one's status. But if sixth house is.
afflicted, "it shows that the maid-servant cannot keep
good health, and will undergo sufferings. As the 10th
house is the fifth from the sixth and as 5th house shows,
birth of children, she will have a child born then.
                           28

      Sun in the 10th house also indicates gains by long
 journeys or through arts, science or medicine. When
 Sun was in 10 at the time of birth of a person,
 during bis Sun periods and sub-periods, his brother
.may have anxious moments about health or his brother
 has gained through insurance, legacy etc.
     To mother, Spn may prove to be evil by inflict-
ing death or she may ;find a partner for business
or she may have any litigation.
    Children of the native may suffer from sickness or
they may borrow money when die native runs Sun
sub-periods.
    Wife may purchase landed properties or invest on
any other permanent possession.
      Father will have greater self-acquisition, larger
jirofits and popularity.
     Elder brother will be losing money or honour due
to secret inimical activities.
RISING MOON OR MOON IN THE
       ASCENDANT OR LAGNA
     The purpose' of Moon is to form, nourish and
sustain. It pertains to personality. By nature one
will have strong attachment to his or her home and is
drawn towards his or her family and parents. The
imagination will be well developed if it receives aspects
from benefics otherwise one will be always worrying
for nothing. Feeling and sensation are active with him.
He may be moody and he is liable to ^change his ideas
quickly. He will be carried away by others' advices.
"Beneficial-aspects to Mood makes the native practical,
especially' from the cautious planet, Saturn, who, by
lordship and occupation, becomes a benefic to him.
One with strong Moon can adapt .himself to a variety
of subjects according to his training.
     : Moon will be found in.the ascendant if the birth
 of the native is just when the Moon isrisingor is to
 rise within another couple of hours from the moment
■of the birth of the native ; as Sun is. rising in the east
 mostly every twentyTour hours and the clock is set
accordingly, one can say that the Sun will be in the
 ascendant in one's chart if the birth were to be between
 4 A.M. and 6 A.M. presuming that the Sun-rise is at
■6 A.M. and passes the first house in two hours
 approximately. But Moon moves daily 13 degrees
 (roughly) in the opposite direction. Hence Moon will
 be seen rising in the east once again, after the earth has
 revolved nearly 373 degrees, i.e., if a child is born
yesterday at 9 P.M. and Moon was then just rising in
the east, to-day Moon will be found just rising only at
 abou t 9-52 P.M. Thus the rising time of the Moon
will be approximately 52 minutes after moon-rise the
previous day.
       Moon in the ascendant increases the native's feel-
ing and sensitiveness. It gives inclination for home
E
Tife. The native will be reserved and cautious even
  though he may be greatly influenced by his surroundings
 ind by the people with whom he comes in contact. He
^will have-many changes in life and may go on long
fjourneys. But he will be happy only in his own home,
".though he may like variety and his moods and humours
"liiy vary a good deal daily. He will try to be thrifty,
    n'd^prudent ;and will not waste. He will have ability
                       do ,good business. The native with
      Wf^n^hpYgr-pridant will be a highly capable adver-
   isef^salesman, nurse and faithful servant. The person
   vilfeh^dwia love for fame and mentally try to be at the
   iSart-ipf'rvptvthing and take a prominent part in the
 [affairs entrusted to him. It makes one very ambitious
    nd.intelligent. He will have fertile imagination and
^ p'He'will be good at planning and will take up original
rind novel enterprises. Moon gives him popularity and
jmblic recognition as he will be doing meritorious
 -deeds and will prove to be very capable.
    The' results will vary according to the sign in which
Moon, was rising and also according to the constellation
in which it,was. Further the various aspects Moon
may receive will modify the results.
• : Moon in Aries (Mesha) which is the ascendant,'
indicates that one will live in fits of enthusiasm, impulse
and emotion. He will have the great desire to excel
and he is likely to realise it. He will rise high in life
and become "a person of some importance. If he wants
to have grand success, he should cultivate stability
and patience. Also he has to keep emotion and
impulse under control. People with Moon in Aries
will be independent and occasionally disobedient and
will hate subordination. They.will overwork mentally.
     Moon in Taurus or Rishaba: When it is the ascen-
dant, Moon gets exalted here and it promises its results
                            32

 to the full extent. A large number of useful and good
 friends will lend their assistance and keep the native
 cheerful. Generally very lasting friendship alone will
 be formed. Moon is said to produce fortune in this-
 sign. The person will be fortunate if Moon receives
 favourable aspects. One can have, both social and
 financial success. One will be firm, tenacious and ~
 patient. Occasionally these people will exhibit
 jealousy, pride and obstinacy.- They have to cultivate
 adaptability and should not be stubborn.
       Moon in Gemini or Mithuna in the ascendant
- makes one intelligent as Moon is called Mathi, indicat-
  ing mind and" Gemini is an airy sign allowing one ta
  imagine to a good extent. Moon will increase the
  strength of the intellectual _side. The native can
  impress on .others and as Gemini is a dual sign he can
„ occupy with more than one subject both in sliidy and
  also in the profession. The natives can easily change
  from one to the other. They are versatile and changea-
  ble. They lack persistence and thoroughness. People
  having Moon in Gemini will be inclined' to editing,
  publishing etc. They will learn mathematics, engineer-
  ing, accounts etc., easily. They will have frequent
  short journeys. They cannot sit idly in' one place,
  and have to be on the move always. They are always
  active in mind and skilful in their work. They become
■ highly tactful and diplomatic as age advances.
      Moon in Cancer in Katakam: All the general
 results previously' mentioned for Moon will be found
 in the native born with Moon in his own sign Cancer,
 the 4th sign of the zodiac.
    Moon in Leo or. Simha . makes one ambitious,
independent and strong. It gives the native the desire
to occupy some position of authority and. power.
People having Moon in Cancer, in its friendly quarters.
                           33

will take up the responsibility and keep others under
their control. They have dignity and ambition to do
great things methodically with enthusiasm, energy and
prudence. They _work and establish a name. Even
though it- is said that people having Moon in Leo are
sincere, it will prove to be false in those in whom
the fourth house from the ascendant is occupied by a
malefic or if the lord of the ascendant is an evil and is
also conjoined with another evil.
     Moon in Virgo or Kanni" makes one. intelligent,
and occasionally clever and ■ cunning. They are
practical. They are considered to be more lucky as
servants than as masters. They will achieve grand
success. They are adaptable and ingenious; large
number of friends and popularity are promised. They
will do better by living, quietly than coming too much
to the front of the public as-there can be reverses and
there will always be opposition. Better adapt to
circumstances than try to have them to your desire.
They will do much travel. Worry and over-anxiety will
result ultimately.
     Moon in Libra or Thulam: Fertile imagination
which is needed by musicians, painters and -artists,
goldsmiths -and ornament dealers,, decorators, garde-
ners etc., is given by Moon in this sign. One will have
many friends and become very popular. One will
never like isolation, but will try to be happy in the
company of the opposite sex. It brings many in touch
with the native who will be fortunate in marriage or
in business partnership.      It promises a successful
journey through life and very good opportunities for
success. It gives keen appreciation of all that is good
and beautiful. One will never be short of friends nor
will he be poor. He will love music and will be
fond of singing. The opposite sex will be drawn to
him and benefits can be had through them.
                           34-

     Moon in Scorpio increases determination, firm
mind and steadiness.      The native will have very
strong likes and dislikes. Moon brings him under the
sway of the feelings and impulses. If one decides to
do a thing, he will go ahead and carry it out with
strong will. It gives practical ability and capacity for
active work.     He will be outspoken, abrupt, and
blunt. The person will get easily irritated; he is
rather fixed in his habits and is not easily influenced
by others. ' He does not like to change his views. He
will have correct intuition and make money by specula-
tion or by partnership or by associating with others.
Moon makes one fearless, enterprising and courageous,
and occasionally, even fool-hardy. The person can
exhibit much pluck ^and endurance. He is fully compe-
tent to undertake anything upon which he sets his
mind.     He should not be over-generous.        Though
Moon is debilitated in this sign and is considered weak,
yet the person born with Moon in Scorpio will invari-
ably maintain a good constitution with enough immu-
nity to disease. He will be bright and cheerful.

     Moon in Sagittarius: It is in its friend's quarters
but sixth from the sign which it owns. Moon makes
the native quick and impulsive. Speedy, turnover of
work and rapid progress is shown. It is likely that the
native due to overwork or haste, brings about his
death. There will always be enthusiasm in what the
natives do. They are dutiful and they can be relied
upon. They throw too much of themselves in what
they do. They look upon a work entrusted to them as
their own and do it efficiently. They have opportu-
nities to make long journeys and voyages overseas
 also. Change of profession in the middle age is likely.
 They will be attracted to religion or philosophy.
They, will be prosperous in their life with social
 advancement. Moon in this sign denotes splendid
                           35

vitality as it fertilises both the mind and the body.
They are honest, intuitive, progressive, just and
sympathetic with a religious spirit. They will possess
hopeful disposition and will ever be optimistic.
     Moon in Capricorn or otherwise called Makaram :
A good deal of self-control and reserved nature is
given by Moon. • A learned author says that one will
have the tendency to wrap himself up a good deal
and not to wear his heart on his sleeve ; and although
other moods may vary with him, this characteristic
of being self-contained and cold would return at
times.     Moon offers patience, perseverence and
persistence, even though there may be many anxieties,
obstacles and hindrances. It gives the native prudence
and cautious careful life. One will gain administra-
tive ability and business instinct. The person will ever
be careful. He wilbbe economical.
      One can become popular; but he has to develop
hopefulness and enthusiasm. He should not feel
depressed or have any inferiority complex. He should
go ahead as he is sure to succeed: As Moon is in
the Saturn's sign, if it forms good aspect with Saturn,
all the virtues of Saturn will be found in the person,
viz., purity, truth and sincerity. He will be prudent,
economical, reliable and faithful. He will have good
capacity to organize and will prove to be highly
reliable even to hold important and confidential port-
folios. . Personal assistants, C.I.D. staff etc., will
thrive under this influence. They will be tempered,
systematic and orderly. For prayers, contemplation
and meditation. Moon in Capricorn is very favourable.
It gives tact and forethought also.
      Moon in Aquarius or Kumbha: This endows
one with unique personality. It inclines the native to
occult things. Moon gives him the ability to read
other's character. People born with Moon in the 11th
                           36

sign of the zodiac can develop mysticism and occultism
They are - intuitive and well refined. Their outlook
will be broad and they will be having humanitarian
sympathies. Even though they are independant, yet
they are very social. Great scientists are born with
Moon in Kumbha. They do well in their connection
with associations and societies. But if Saturn were
to form evil aspect, with the Moon in Kumbha, it
brings' misfortune to the native. He will be much
depressed, disappointed, and dejected. He will . he
discontented and dissatisfied. His life will be thwarted
by the seniors, elders and old people. He must culti-
vate hope and with patience work to the last.
     Moon in Pisces or Meena : Moon gives a quiet
life. They will.be easily discouraged, as there; will be
obstacles and hindrances in their progress. Some
friends will stealthily be doing harm by his secret
inimical activities. The person with Moon in Meena
will be mediumstic and silently emotional. He may
become psychic and-easily influenced.-- He has to
avoid depression and ever be hopeful that he can
achieve" his aim' in spite of odds. He .will be broad-
minded. He will do charities. If Jupiter, the lord of
the sign, does not form favourable aspect, the native
will be extravagant and careless. .. There may be finan-
cial loss. They have to be very-careful in their
dealings with others and especially the so-called friends
who will be outwardly honest and inwardly venomous,
choose friends;- never associate with all. Temperance
in all things is advisable. Thus it will be seen that
Moon in the ascendant in various signs will ofler diffe-
rent results and it is'necessary to note what aspecrthe
lord of the sign forms with the-Moon.. For more
correct results one has to note in which constellation
Moon was and then ascertain the exact influence, of
Moon. -
                  NO MORE DOUBTS
      . Q.:—I have heard people saying that the birth of
   a child at an auspicious time may modify the trouble-
   some period of the father and bring him fortune ; the
   favourable and the lucky period to wife will compen-
   sate for. the miserable one of the partner ; marrying a
   girl in whose horoscope birth of -children is strongly
   indicated, will be advantageous' for' a man in whose
   chart, birtx-.of children is denied or there is much of
   evil influence unfavourable to the begetting of children.
   What is your opinion ?
        A.:—We differ. It is not correct to say that the
   varying fortunes of the parents get modified by the birth
   of the child, and so on.
          Whatever a native is to enjoy or suffer from, is
     already pre-destined, and it will run its own course.
   ^Birth of children'on a particular date is also already
  • found in his horoscope. If one enjoys .luck only"after
    the birth of a particular child, it is clear that, according
  ' to- his own horoscope, the evil days had ended, and
     lucky days have started; unless, this statement is
    correct, he cannot have a .child at the- commencement
    of his fortunate days. The birth'of the child at the
    auspicious moment and the beginning: of his brilliant
    itimes are indicated in his map. If fate is otherwise
    termed as " THALAI ELUTHU                 something written
' on the head by Brahma, then the Creator will not be
    going on changing the fate as and when one elects a
    propitious time to undertake any venture or-by marry-
    ing or by birth of children, etc. Once written is never
    erased or modified.
  .    If a person is to suffer, while his wife has to enjoy
  favourable results, according to their horoscopes, each
  will have the results as indicated by the planets at the
                            38

time of their birth, and one cannot cancel the others
fortune or misfortune. If'A'has married ' Band
' A' runs the most unfavourable period, whereas 'Br
has a lucky time, and if both were to go to races and
bet, ' A ' will be going on losing, whereas' B ' will gain.
The loss of ' A ' cannot be prevented, by ' B     Nor the
benefits to 4 B' can be robbed away by . the evil
influence of ' A
      If the husband's chart denies children and the
wife's chart promises many issues according to the
prediction offered by an Astrologer, we have to say that
the so-called Astrologer has not understood the science
of Astrology, or there is something wrong somewhere.
 Anyhow, when an expert Astrologer were to scrutinise
the horoscopes, he will boldly declare that both the
 horoscopes indicate birth of children or the children
born, may be a "Jara Putra" or natural children.
But, to say that marrying a lady whose horoscope
 promises children whereas that of her husband has no
clear indication of it is not wise.
       Therefore, one's luck or ill-luck cannot be altered
  or modified, by electing a propitious time for the com-
  mencement of any venture, or by .marrying one, or by
  birth of children, and so on: Everything is a coinci-
 dence as pre-destined.
       It is correct to predict that a native will go over-
  seas at the age of 26, and he will have a child at his
  25th year of age, whereas it is not wise to* say that
  because the native had a child at a brilliant time at
  his age of 25, it is due to the luck of the child the
  father had the fortune to go overseas. In the wife's
  chart, it will be shown that the husband will go over-
  seas ; in the boy's chart, planet will portray that the
- father will go overseas at his birth anniversary, and in
  his own chart, he'will find that he has to go overseas
  at his age of 26.
                           39

     If the results may be compared to that of a flower,
then the indications from each chart, may be compared
to the light thrown from the torch (horoscope). No-
body's light can change the flower to fruit or to seed.
Every light will show that it is a flower. Similarly,
every horoscope will indicate the same result and never
change it.

     Q.:—What is meant by Sade-Sati? What is your
opinion about the proverb that the first roundis mode-
rate, second favourable and the third bad ? Does this'
offer only evil results to one and all, throughout the
seven and half years?"
     A.:—The term £ seven and a^ half years Saturn' is
used only by the Hindus. During transit, whenever
Saturn passes in the sign occupied by Moon and also
the second and the twelfth houses counted from the
sign occupied by Moon, it is called Sade-Sati or Seven
and half years Saturn, as it takes nearly 2* years for
Saturn to move from one sign to another.
     Westerners take the position of Sun at the time of
birth to offer prediction by Gocharam or transit system,
and they do hot predict in this manner, whenever
Saturn transits in the three signs 12, 1 and 2, counted
from the sign occupied by the Sun.
     Sade-Sati is not always harmful, that too, to each
and everybody. There ate many "points to be taken into
consideration before passing a judgment; many impor-
tant ones are bmitted—e.g.,
     1. Whether the Moon at the time of birth was in
the very beginning or in the middle or in the fag end
of the sign. Exact longitude is not taken.
    2. To which sign Moon is the lord, whether a
benefic or a malefic, which relative it indicates, and
                           40

      3. Which houses are owned by Saturn to that
-native and what results Saturn indicates to that person.
      All these three points are absolutely necessary and
 their omission will invariably mislead one.
     There are innumerable cases, enjoying success in
the competitive examination, getting married to a
beautiful and dutiful wife, entering into service and
also having promotion before the Sade-Sati was over,
undertaking new enterprises,- and forming new friend
ship, with the foreigners by making frequent journeys
to overseas, feeling very happy by having a child, only
during the seven and a half years Saturn period, even
though a few years had already passed, and Saturn at
that time, transited in the Upachaya sthanas ten and
eleven. There are also many people who suflfer during
the seven and half years Saturn.
    In no day, all the hours are uniformly' either happy
or miserable; when such is the case, -how can the seven
and a half years to one be evil throughout in every
walk of. life?
     If one receives, say a dozen letters, and^ he goes
through them .in half an hour, one can observe that he
smiles when he goes through one, he gets irritated
while reading another, tears off one which annoys him,
and so on. Thus, in life, there is nothing as continu-
ous success or troubles, and Saturn is not the only
planet for consideration.
     Whenever the transT result is to be judged, one .
must note to which house "Moon and Saturn are the
lords, what they indicate by their lordship, and which
relatives are shown by Moon according to one's horos-
cope.
    Further, in Tamil iNad, there is the proverb that if
one has the seven and a half years. Saturn, thrice in
                           41

one's life, the first one will offer moderate results, the
second round will bestow brilliant ones, and the third
will be invariably evil.

     The readers may consider the points. Are there
not many deaths before the natives have the first round
of the seven and a half years Saturn without experi-
encing seven and half years Saturn even once? For
example, if a child is born with Saturn in 3 or 4 or 5
or 6 or 7 to Moon and if it passes away before 10 years
of age," then this child could not have Sade-Sati at all.
In India, the infantile mortality is great, and people
dying in youth are greater than those who live beyond
35 years. Therefore, this proverb is meaningless and
useless.
    Further, during the first round, one will be ia the
schools and the colleges.
     During the second round alone, one will get
married, enter into service, earn, get promotion, own
vehicles and enjoy all comforts with only those number
of children born within that age.
     If one is destined to live to old age and has the
third round of the seven and a half years Saturn,- cer-
tainly the responsibility must be greater, as there will"
be many children and grandchildren born; difficulties
of a few and misfortune of some of them, will never
allow him-to enjoy peace of mind. Surely he has to
pass away as he will be between 53 years and 90 years
of age. So, one need not be carried away by the
proverb.

    Some are also under the wrong impression that the
Sade-Sati runs exactly 7 years and_6 months from the
moment when Saturn enters the 12th sign. Our sages
have mentioned that Saturn's occupation of the twelfth
                           42

house, Janma and the second house counted from the
Moon sign is called seven and a half years Saturn.
Saturn may enter in the 12th sign, transit for a few
months in that sign, retrograde and again pass back to
the 11th sign. After some months, it may again enter
the 12th house. Mostly when seven years are over,
it may leave the second house and pass on to the third
house, and again by retrograde motion, it may re-enter
the second sign from the third. A few months later,
once for all, Saturn may move to the third sign. All
the periods, either continuous or intermittent when
Saturn was in the three signs, i.e., twelve, one and two
counted from the Moon sign, should be considered as
the    years Saturn.

      Correct method of reading the results: 1. To
Mesha rasi, i.e., to those who are born with their
Moon in Aswini Nakshathra or Bharani Constellation
or the first quarter of Karthikai star. Moon is the lord
of the 4th house, and Saturn is the lord of the tenth
and the eleventh houses. Hence, whenever favourable
aspects are being formed according to the Western sys-
tem, the person will enjoy the beneficial results of the
4th house, like purchase of a car or a plot of land, or
getting' service in his permanent place of residence, or
gain through his or her mother, as the fourth house'
indicates vehicle, land, mother, etc. To his brother,
there will be much pressure for finance. The mother
of the native, if she is a career woman, will meet with
difficulties, and her health will be indifferent. His-
children will incur expenses by making long journeys.
The native's wife, or husband, will gain in speculation
or enter .into service in stocks and shares or share-
market, or mines or cinema, opera, etc. The native's
father may have to meet expenses far-outweighing his
income then. Evil aspects between Saturn and the
Moon indicate the opposite results.
                           43

      Moreover, one is to take the Moon sign as though
it is the first house, then judge Saturn as lord of 10
and 11 transiting in . the twelfth house when it is in
Meena (Pisces) and in Janma conjoining Moon, when
Saturn passes in Mesha or Aries and in the second
house Rishaba or Taurus.

     Thus, to each sign, one is to note'of which house
Moon is the ruler, which houses are owned by Saturn
and then ascertain the time when Saturn forms
favourable aspect with the position of the radical
Moon as well as the period when he forms adverse
aspects. Finally, one is to predict the results of the
various aspects formed between the lord of a particular
sign and the lord of the other sign on those occasions
and dates only. As Saturn owns two houses, the results
have to be judged separately as lord of one house form-
ing the aspect with the Moon and the lord of the next
house (which it owns) forming the same aspect. Both
will operate and if one is favourable and the other
unfavourable, one will not cancel the other. If the
lordship of the beneficial house indicates gain, and the
other evil house, loss, (for Meena Rasi, Saturn is lord
of 11, profit, and also lord of 12, loss or investment)
the person will have both gain and also loss. A man
receiving financial aid from a friend is indicated by
the llth house, and return of loan to the creditor, is
shown by the ownership of the 12th house.

     Thus to each Rasi, the results are to be judged,
by those who do not follow Nadi or Stellar System.
But those, who predict using Stellar method, can give
correctly the nature of the events and if one includes
Western aspects also the exact date of the occurrences
can be arrived at, when alone the predi<; tionis complete
clear and correct.
    ERECTION OF THE HOROSCOPES

     In our August issue, the method to ascertain the-
cusps of houses (Bhavas) for the first example born at
6.30 P.M. at Agra is explained. The other birth
in. different latitude and longitude is taken in this
issue.
      The second example is the birth- at 3.30 A.M..
 I.S.T. or 3.27.36 A.M. L.M.T. on 15.5.63 at Allahabad,
 25 degrees 28 minutes North Latitude and , 81 degrees
-54 minutes East Longitude. The sidereal time at the
 time of birth alreacly calculated and arrived at is 18.
 hours 55 minutes 18 seconds.
      Refer to"the Raphel's Tables of Houses. To find
the exact point which was rising at the time of birth,
i.e., the Ascendant, turn "over the page in which the
latitude 25 degrees 19 minutes north (for Benares) which
is very near the latitude of the birth place is given.
On the right hand side page, the positions of .cusps are-
published for the sidereal. times 18 Hours 52 Minutes
11 Seconds and 18 Hours 56. Minutes 31 Seconds.
The time at birth happened to be 18 Hours 55 Minutes
18 Seconds which is in between these two. The
difference between the two sidereal times given in
the book is 18 Hours -56 Minutes 31 Seconds minus
18 Hours 52 -Minutes 11 ~ Seconds, i.e., 4 Minutes and
20.Seconds or 4 x 60 plus 20 sec- or 260 seconds. The-
difference between the sidereal time at birth 18 Hours
SS'Minutes 18 Seconds and the sidereal time given, i.e.,
18 Hours 52 Minutes 11 -Seconds is 3 Minutes and 7
Seconds or 3 x 60 plus 7 sec. or 187 seconds. Sc, the
             187                                  '
fraction of - _ is to be worked out and added to the
             260                                    '    -
position given for 18 hours 15 minutes 11 seconds.
             5., Saturn, lord of 8 from Chandra lagna is-
             '1 -aspected by Mars; hence short life.
           ' 6,      As Moon ..is" in the Dussthana in 8.and as-
                    Jupiter, the lord •of lagna, is weak, being in
                  . .Sj Alpayuryoga'results. , ^      - -     '1

 " ::£s.




   hart^.One should inever-forge E th'a ui h'blresti  11 s ;i n d icaXJ''
               nn       "be ^ c>i\J<*rt-in111T:T*i\V tli^ i~nl^"

  SOotfssat".'theJtime^of^birlh periodrj5^[ffa i persbn 7is-^'
  licked'^and/vihiiuica! :.td"<andtber,'; he.wi 11 'certainly do-
  ^rm"^to^the^person.^hen^etrules,the"dayiand is in/-*
 ppyyer,^x.'Als6;.Vif',- any." good >prfbad.happens^to"one, i't,.'
                                     -nr f/S**             itfhAri



Slw r - JfWe explanation offered -by^thie author were to be"
gcorrect,' then, Jupiter; who "is considered to' be weak^
l^eirig inr 8,' could have .caused:infantile, mortality 'and .
fshebwould "-have1 .been; dead even ^within the 2 years-"
^2;,iponths*and'29* days^of- Jupiier's dash,, which.1 was "the-
Hjalahbetaf "thejtime .df birth ofithe girl,^ v .If Jupiter is V
pyeak7"r andi if it promises Alpa Ayusf Jupiierimiist end.. "
^the1m life in its'dasa/ •, h•,;             'X . " ^ , >
fi^V            c*        "        "          ^
                     Kas" becom e' bad by the .aspect; Of Mars,,'r;
 ttbbnTstie'ouahnlo. have been. d ead, .'when. she ran Saturn^ "j
   das:i: Murs Bltukti. At that lime her age wouldbens.
      But slie died when Bhuda dasa, SukraBhukLi,
  Budlia anthra operated.
        The correct interpretation should be as follo^s^jdljj
   so that one can correctly judge, when one will enjoy
   result, after calculating the dasa periods..       ■
    .      For-",fpe6pleJ;,barn. in a movable sign,, lord of, 11 iS|^|
f:, 'Bhadhaka/ffiana iAdhipathi; to fixed sigh or sthira lagna^
      lord bf^^Houg^'Bhagyadhipathi, he is yet a Jhadha-^H
 f,   kasthana^Uhiplthi^and/j'fox.      people born;in',bom"mbh^9|
 ?r'vior ,-Ub"ay^igns^lagn^ahe Jth house. is Bhadhalca-aa
 sJ* stbana?^]^refc^^0th^^th'; arid: th'e' Jth-hbuses'are^H
 blithe'.^Bbl,ub^k1t^ba^^o^the1^moyable,fffixed;',ari^.^B


^ "and I the^ t wel f thirrio^fe^hiereff^ln^eMTes^s'5'?Qf.1 i feflM
^ThereforeXthe^th^h^u^^o^i;are;tak'eni'as .the sMara^B
^ , kastbaria^Bgpeci|ll^i^Dh^^ljag^a^btirig1^H
                                  1            ,
^ Vcomlnori^ign.tthe       J r7th hbusb':is      MarakaStharia3:i^,'^€^M
S'■■ >;... ^                w •••• .'•.' rl~:•     ^
        -j. . ■Venus'' is lord '-'o^6/and^is'in the 8th house indica-^^
f' "ting'disease,' difificultylind''death.' ^                  '
      . ..^^jlf^ari^able^astrblbger were'to take thai Lagna^as'^
    .vweak' .asl'Kcthu bCcupies^dhe'Tl^agriaV' and h the llord'ot^B
f "'.the' lagna lias gorelo7thel'?th therefrom a'rid Moon sigi^Sj
       as 'strong .because. Moon fis injts own quarters, ih'eri:''^
i. ^Cancer _(Katakani3. ahouldt be "considered as the first ^
        house • and ' .'results .-afeV to be read out counting from Tj*
f Cancef (Kri'taka) which approach is correct.                   , ; ■■■" ,'\$B
tr. .In that" case, 'Venus-Uslord of;:ll and it becdmes-;.^
^the Bhadakasthana, Adhipathi as-tthe Moon sign is.a .'j^
f movable or chara oner- '.Further, if Is in the coristellar
  tiori of the lord of the Sth'house'Saturn,-portending, ^
. evil .to fiealth .apd jongevity. ^                   •.
r^-r-^T^Merci&vriis^ralso inthe'Consteltatidn1 of. Saturn "arid -—-
     it owns the ]2th house, termed as Mokshasthar.a.
          Hence Mercury as Marakasthana Adhipathi and
     Bhadhakasthana Adhipathi and Venus must prove to be
       RASI PALAN FOR SEPTEMBER 1963
                            By.
        JOTHISHA VlSHARATH K. GANAPATHV,
               13, Brahmin Street, Madras-15.

    ARIES:      (Aswini,   Bharani and Karthigai       1st
Pada)
      This is generally a month of happiness and fulfil-
ment of ambitions for the Aries-born. Upto the 12th
 instant, as Mars, the Lord of the Rasi is posited in the
 7th house, uniform success is indicated.. New enterr
 prises can be undertaken in the 3rd week of the
 month, "as Mars would then be in exaltation in
.Navamsam. The successes will continue as he will,
 later on, transit in the" constellation of Rahu. A signi-
ficant phenomenon that contributes to the lessening of
 the pressure from creditors and to the increase in-the
financial position, is that Yeniis, the Lord of the 2nd
house,., is transiting in her own constellation upto the
 10th.- Thereafter, as;she transits in the 5th and 6th
houses under the governance of Sun, peace of mind is
indicated. The transit in Hastham "Star portrays
happiness^ through/ real ^estates, landed properties.'
vehicles etc., after thd 2~0tb instant.
     Retrograde Mercury in the 6th house is indicative
of delays in the receipt of replies to letters and corres-
pondence, . expenditure: due to litigation, physical
-exhaustion due to short-journeys etc. Much of toil
 would be needed due to new contracts and agencies.
Anticipated returns will accrue in matters relating to
forecast as the Lord of the 5th house is in his own
house and his own cdnstellation from the 13th instant.
It is really a good period from the 16th instant.
                           54

Races, lotteries, speculation etc., will be highly paying
from the second fortnight of the month. In the fields
of cinema, music, opera etc., good recognition and
popular support will be forthcoming after the 15th of
September. The native may have to incur expenses in
the pursuit of higher studi es and specialisation. Easy
successes in examinations are assured by the retrograde
motion of Jupiter. Work in office will increase
considerably, but with it will increase your recognition
also and this i$ the time when your immediate
superiors will come forward with assistance and recom-
mendation. Some will have a change of place of
posting. The native will have unnecessary fear due to
some secret inimical activities. But no troubles need
                                          T
be anticipated.

      Brothers will have the help and assistance of their
  .iends. They will undertake short and profitable
journeys. Mother's health will be quite, normal. She
may have expenses due to the conduct of happy
celebrations.
      The native's children. will be"'very happy over
 successes in their enterprises and increase in their
 financial positions. There will be a good rise in his
 official status by the 20th. But later there may be
-transfer or entanglement of money.
     The wife of the native will be happier at finding
jhat her troubles have disappeared. As the lord of the
 nd house transits in her first house, she will have an
 mprovement in finances and an increase of mental
peace and happiness.
      The father of the native cannot be said to have
 a very favourable period in the month of September.
..Delay in the fulfilment of ambitions and much expense
  due to real estates'and
  ...                . ^  vehicles, are to be expected.
                           55

    TAURUS : (Karthigai 2, 3, 4th Padas, Rohini
and Mrigasirsham 1st and 2nd Padas)
     The native will keep good health throughout this
month as Venus transits upto the 10th, in her own
constellation, and later on in the 4th and 5th houses in
the constellation of Sun. Every effort will be crowned
with success. Short journeys, if undertaken, will prove
profitable after the 20th. Some money might get en-
tangled if attempts are made for undertaking newer
contracts or agencies. Good and favourable replies
may .be anticipated for letters and correspondence,
after the 10th. Financial gains, though not very
munificient, are portrayed as Mercury, the Lord of the
2nd and 5th houses, is retrograde and is in the 6th
house. Expenses might be incurred but under pleasant
circumstances. It is better to avoid lotteries and races
and speculation, during this period as only much of
toil and desperation will result in the end.
      To those engaged in the field of cinema, music,
opera etc., the latter half of the month will be more
eventful than the earlier. The transit of Sun will prove
quite helpful for gains through real estates, vehicles,
landed properties etc. This month will give successes
to the Taurus-borns who take competitive exami-
nations. Litigation will prove successful during the
first 20 days of. the month, after which an unnecessary
and baseless fear might arise. But such fears will pr.g\te
transitory in nature. Work in office-might increase j
but, during the last week of the montb^the extra work
rendered will be recognized by the" superiors and.
proper recommendations will be made in their behalf.
In respect of those engaged in social work, the status
of the native will improve'considerably upto the 22nd.
of the month. No fears need be nurtured due to any
possible inimical activities. When Mars transits in the
6th house in his own constellation, the native will have
                           57

anticipated returns from the investments he had made.
After the 13th of the month, political affairs will take
a favourable turn.
     The brothers of the native will have .improvemeOt
in their financial position and there will be peace in
the family environments. To the children of the
Taurus-born, the month of September indicates only
delay and despondency in .their enterprises, as-Lord of
their Rasi is in retrograde motion. Venus adds her
contribution in causing much of expenses.
     The wife of the native will have a better period in
this month with good health, increased wealth and
mental peace. In the last week of the month there
might be some speculative gains. If she is employed,
she will earn the regard and good-will of her superiors,
after the .13th insfant.
     The. father of the native will have continued
successes and improvement in general finance. Though
Saturn is posited in the first house, only good results
will accrue. The transit of Mars will be quite helpful
for the reaping of good dividends through real estates
and vehicles. In business,"a marked improvement may
be noticed after the I2th. : Work load now will be less
compared to that of-the last month; but it will take
some more time for him to reap the benefits by way of
increased emoluments or remuneration.

    GEMINI: (Mrigasirsham 3rd and 4th Padas,
Thiruvathirai and Punarpoosanl: .lst/ 2nd and 3rd
Padas) •                    ... ' •
     From the 6th of the month, .theLord of the Rasi
is in retrograde motion in the 4lh" hpuse:" This"indi-
cates that the Gemini-born people will have much.of.-
impediments and delay in the fulfilment of their'ambi-;
tions, unnecessary expense's .and physical and mental
                            58

fatigue. There will be" continued expenditure due to
house, landed properties and/or vehicles owned.
       The second fortnight of the month will be com-
paratively eventful as Sun transits in the 4th house'in
own constellation and later in Moon's constellation.
 When Venus, the Lord of the 5th and 12th houses
 transits in the 3rd house (i.e., when transiting in
 Pooram star upto the 10th and when in Sun's
 constellation upto the 20th), successes in forecast and
 speculation are assured. To people engaged in cinema
 and music, an improvement in their status coupled
 with popular recognition can be noticed. As the Lord
 of the 6th and 11th houses, viz,. Mars, is transiting in
 'jis own constellation, social workers will have help
 irom influential persons. No troubles need be antici-
  pated by the Gemini-borns in matters relating to litiga-
■tion. In fact, the period from 17th to 22nd is quite
  good and litigation, if any, would end favourably to
 the native. The native can, with confidence, undertake
  new ventures. As retrograde Saturn is not debilitated
  in Navamsa, the native will regain his money entangled
  so far. Long voyages and journeys can be undertaken.
  No disappointment need be feared in the attempts for
  higher education. The results of competitive exami-
  nations will be quite encouraging. As Jupiter is in
  retrograde motion and in fhe 10th house, the native will
  have to strain himself to a greater extent in his office,
^without corresponding recognition or reward. There
  will not be the secret inimical activities in this month.
     The brothers of the Gemini-born people will have
successes and improved financial position in the 2nd
half of the month. Short journeys, in connection with
office work, will be undertaken after the 20th.
    Mother's health may go down a bit. But she will
soon regain normal health. The children of the
Gemini-born will have ..all-round success during the
first fortnight. During the remaining period, just
opposite results should be expected.
     The wife of the native will regain the money she
had given up for good. She will be happy to receive
assistance from her father.
     Father will find happiness in family environments,
hut expenses will be far too high. New contracts and
agencies Undertaken will prove profitable. It is advis-
able that the native does not speculate in this month.

   . CANCER:      (punarpdosam 4th Pada, Poosam and
Ayilyam)
     The health of the people bom under the 4th sign
of the zodiac, viz., Cancer, will be quite normal during
this month. Successes in their enterprises are also
strongly indicated. As Sun, the Lord of the 2nd
house, transits in the second and 3rd houses, there
will be peace and happiness in the family. Happy
functions will be celebrated during the first half of the
month. As Sun and Venus are posited in Poosam Star,
there will be little or no pressure from bankers and
•creditors and money will be flowing through their
hands without much pains. Significantly, Mercury,
the Lord of the 3rd and 12tb houses, is in his own house
and from the 6th, he is in retrograde motion. This
portrays that, in respect of the contracts or agencies
 undertaken during the first week, the native will have to
strive harder during the 2nd and subsequent weeks. Let
 not delays in receipt of replies to letters and correspon-
 dence shake the mental, determination of the native.
Perhaps investments will not give" that much of antici-
 pated returns, but that need not deter him. As Venus,
 the Lord of the 4th and 11th houses transits in the 2nd
 and 3rd houses, the native will have peace and plenty
 through houses, landed properties, vehicles etc. Those
                            60

engaged in social work will have improvement in their
status. In matters relating to forecast and specula-
tions,. anticipated returns will, accrue during the first
twelve days when Mars, the Lord of the 5th and lOtb
houses, is in his own constellation in the 4th house;
During the period, that follo'ws when he .transits in
Bahu's constellation, the gains may not be much. To
people engaged in the fields of cinema, music or opera,
there will be public support and good income. The
native will earn a good name from his superiors in
office. Business will thrive. As Jupiter is. in retro-
grade motion, litigation will continue further. The last
week is quite auspicious for undertaking long voyages
and journeys. There will be some impediments to the
attempts made by the native for higher or specialized
studies.- It is advisable not to be over-confident in
regard to competitive examinations.
      Brothers will have much of unnecessary travel and
consequeni expenditure. Their health will be normal.
during the 2nd fortnight of the month.
     The mother will have immediate fulfilmeht-in her
attempts upto the 10th. The position may tend to change
for the .worse, during the period that follows. As the
Lord of the 2nd House is posited in the first house,
expenditure will be well within control.
     The" children of the native will have name, fame
and reputation. Success and gains through speculation.'
and' forecast, are portrayed to thera after the 22nd,
     The partner in. life or the partner in biisiliess will
earn good regard from their superiors. If the wife is
employed, she will' have an increase in her monthly
emoluments.
     The father of the native will find fulfilment of his
plans and ambitions, but only after an initial delay.
Llt;gr.+:',n wi'l end favourably in the earlier half of the-
month.
k.'TgJ?!'                ^
 Jk^'              'i '<»
      ;t. * ritte MI*!i ^ ^S^UiSSSIS
                        ww-




                                                                      ord
                                                                 :r own
                                                                ig this
                                                                Ttaken
                                                                 moves
                                                                 e will
                                                                i little.
                                                      <hausted as his
                                                      >e, leaving the
                                                      iibility -^on the
                                                      ded properti'es.
                                                      es but more of
                                       IflffBSffflBii iod from -1'7th
                                                      asam, arran ge-
                                                        of houses or
                                                       will have the
                                                      uential peof)le.
                                                      tudies will in-
                            63

   crease. The 3rd week portrays an easy success in
   competitive examinations. During the other periods,
   the native will have to exert more for the examination.
   For those engaged in cinema, music or opera, it will
?■ takejtime for them to win popular appeal and recogni-
 -tioh.fi'There will not be any secret inimical activities
'.ihVthis'mbhth to the native.
       Brothers wi 11.hive a very favourable period in the
 first fortnight and a not so very eventful period in the
 second half.
      Mother will keep only indifferent health. Expenses
 for the family will be on the increase. The children
 of the Leo-born will have an even flow of money; at
 times they will find their expenses outweighing income.
      The partner in life, or the partner in business will
have mental peace and happiness due to happy celebra-
tions. The father of the native, will remain cheerful
even though the work load in his office may increase.
Some anxiety or worry will not be absent, in' matters
relating to litigation. Speculation and forecast will
prove profitable. .

    VIRGO; {Uthiram 2nd, 3rd and 4th Padas,
Hastham, Chithirai 1, 2nd Padas)
     As the lord of Rasi, namely Mercury, is in direct
motion upto the 6th, the native will keep good health.
Success in this endeavour is also assured. After the 6th,
Mercury becomes retrograde and transits in Janma upto
the 23rd and then in the 12th house.. Naturally, the
native will have much of impediments and hindrances
for progress, and will experience a good deal of physi-
cal exhaustion. Business may show some slackness.
Some may have transfer on account of official business.
As Venus, the lord of 2nd house is in the 12th house,
expenses under pleasant circumstances will be incurred.
                            64

 After the I Oth instant, as Mercury transits in the con-
 stellation of Sun, expenses will increase further, result-
ing in some financial pressure also. Long voyages and
journeys may be undertaken for the pursuit of fiigher,
 or specialised studies. "The last 10 days of the month
will give easy successes for the native in competitive
examinations. Mars, the lord of the 3rd house, is
posited in the 2nd house and therefore the native may
undertake short and profitable journeys and new con-
tracts and agencies may be taken up with a good
 measure of success; From the i7th to the 22nd,"letters
and correspondence will receive favourable and antici-
pated replies. As Jupiter, the Lord of the 4th house
is in .the 7th house and retrograde, expenses will be
incurred for the repair of houses or vehicles. Some may
find their money getting held up due to- newer pur-
chases. Though the retrograde Saturn is in the 5th
house, the native will have a sizeable return through
speculation and forecast. To those engaged in music;
and cinema, help will be forthcoming in this month
from friends and well-wishersr Litigation will prolong.
It is the second fortnight of the month which will give,
a good name and fame to social workers. The invest-
ments made by the native" will give nominal returns
due to the transit of Sun in the friendly constellations
during the middle of the month. At the same time,
there will be secret inimical activities from the enemies
 of the native, who will try to undermine his popularity
and name.
    Brothers will, not find this month, very eventful.
They should be ready to face delays and despondency.
They will have a considerable reduction in the work-
load in office, but it will take some more time for them
to win recognition from their superiors. Mother will
keep normal health. She will have peace of mind and
happiness. This month will give her favourable returns,
through forecast, speculation etc.
                             65

      The children of the Virgo-borns will have success
 in their attempts. There may be some impediments
■for "their pursuit of higher studies. They should be
 prepated for trouble through litigation.
fM*-.Tlie wfe yiH find an increased budget of expendi-
$w^..'4Deiay.'ip *the- fulfilment of attempts, physical
                -due to~'journeys, extra work in office with-
iiutSSeaso'nable recognition of the same, these are
Portrayed; ^. t
^^|.ji»fough house or'vehicles, the father of the native
■wiPfind lifp pleasant and comfortable. He will be
 ■spending pioney for" the celebration of happy family
'functions. - He shbuld.be cautious in matters relating
  to forecast or speculation.; .
; A; 't.**      "   **4    ■- .    ' ■
         ' LIBRA ; (Chithiral J3rd and 4th Padas, Swathi,'
  Visakham lst,' 2nd ^nd .3rd Padas)
  ■"■ As Venus,. the lord of the Rasi, is'in the 11th
house upto'the 12th, every one of, the attempts of the
native will be crowned with success. His health will
be quite fine. When Venus moves on to "transit in the-
 12th ho use,".'though there will be success in enterprises,
yet the "native .will have'tb "work for it. Due to this
extra strain he would feel much of physical exhaustion.
As the lord of the second house is in Janma and in his
own constellation upto the. 12th, improvement in the
financial position coupled with a lessening of expendi-
ture is indicated. The period from 17th to 22nd is
really quite significant for the native to receive
entangled money. After the 22iid, as Jupiter is exalted
in Navamsa, an easy flow of money is assured.
Similarly, Saturn, the lord of the 4th and 5th houses,
transits in a friendly constellation in Navamsa. This
indicates both expenses and happiness through perma-
nent possessions, real estates and vehicles. Only small
profits are portrayed through lotteries, races, specula-
                            66

tion etc. In the first half of the month, people in the
fields of cinema, music or opera will have good returns,
though the latter half indicates only moderate results.
Though Mercury is in retrograde motion and in the
 I2lh house, as she transits in the constellation of the
lord of the 11th house, the native might undertake long
voyages or journeys. Expenses may be incurred in
connection with higher studies. In the last week of the
month, easy victory may be anticipated in competitive
examinations.
     In office, the native will have help and assistance
of friends and superiors, though the superiors vyill
extract more of office work through persuasive words.
Business will thrive. After the 20th, the native will
find good improvement in business through self-efforts.
Sun's transit will be an aiding factor for success in the
social field. Though there may be secret inimical
activities, the native will have the confidence that no
harm can come to him.
      Brothers will find success in their attempts after an
initial delay. Difficulties and hindrances in business
will fade away after the 12th. Long voyages and
journeys, if undertaken, will only prove futile with
nothing but unnecessary wastage of money.
     Children will have sound financial positions
after the 22nd. They need not fear any reverses due to
undertaking contracts or agencies. Work load will be
minimum in office and they will earn a.good name.
     The \yife of the native will find success in litiga-
tion, and peace will prevail in family circles. The
retrograde Saturn will earn for her. a good name and
reputation from her boss.
   - The father of the native may keep only indifferent
health. His attempts will fructify only after an initial
  delay. The financial position     of the native     will
j improve to a certain extent.

     SCORPIO :     (Visakham 4th Pada, Anusham and
 Kettai)
      For the first 12 days of the month, when Mars, the
 Lord of the Rasi, is in his own constellation and in the
 12th house, the health of the people born under the
 Scorpio sign, will be normal. Their attempts will be
 successful and peace of mind will prevail. Thereafter
when Mars transits in Swathi star, their health will get
affected due to much of travel, and unnecessary pur-
 suits. Delay in the fulfilment of ambitions is indicated.
 As Jupiter, the Lord of the 2nd.and 5th houses, is in
retrograde motion and in the 5th house, expenses will
be incurred under pleasant circumstances. After the
22nd, speculation and forecast will give sizeable
Erofits. In the last week, the people engaged in the
  eld of cinema, music or opera will have greater reward
and recognition. As Saturn, the Lord of the 3rd and
4th houses, is- in friendly house in Navamsam, the
expenses so far incurred on account of real estates and
vehicles will come to a close. Newer contracts or
agencies may be undertaken; but the returns will only
be moderate. In matters, relating to litigation,
favourable results may be anticipated during the first
12 days. The period that follows will prove unevent-
ful and drudging.
     Retrograde Mercury indicates continued delay in
the receipt of entangled money, much of exertion in
the social field etc. The coming month is better for
commencing higher specialised studies. Long voyages
and journeys will not be quite profitable. Success
is assured in competitive examinations, but a bit of
extra care and concentration would be necessary from
the native. A good rise is possible in the official
                            68

career after the 13th of September, Business will
thrive after the 27th by the support and recommenda-
tion of friends and influential people. Investments
will give a small amount of profit as Venus transits in
the 10th and 11th houses. Some may-'get married,
during the first 10 days of this month.
     Brothers will keep good health.' Short journeys
might not prove profitable to .them. They can earn
good name in their profession. Mother will continue
to incur expenses. She can expect go'od dividends if
she speculates with caution. Letters and corres-
pondence will bring in favourable replies.
      The native's children will have the assistance from
 friends and well-wishers for an active business. As
 Mars is in the 8th house, they may feel some financial:
 strain after repaying the loans already taken. The'
 work-load in office will fall considerably after the
 22nd. The wife of the native will have ;mental peace
 and happiness in the homely environments. She will
.be gay in the company of all her relatives. Response
 will be prompt for her letters and correspondence.
 The partner in life will find a happy fortnight during
 the latter half of the month. Expenses will. go down.
 Entangled money will be realised. During the last few
 days of the month, he will, however, have to work
 longer in his office.

    SAGITTARIUS:         (Moolaffi, Pooradam' and first
pada of uthiradam)
     In this month, the people born under this 9th sigh
of thetodiac, will have much of physical exhaustion and
mental strain, as Jupiter, the Lord of IheRasi, isin retro-
grade motion in the 4th house. Though there may be
expenses on account of houses or landed properties or
vehicles, as Jupiter becomes stronger after the 22nd,
                            70

the native will be happy. As Saturn, the iord of the
2ud and 3rd houses, is in the house owned by Sun in
Navamsam, short journeys will be very profitable.
Letters will bring in happy news. As Mars, the lord
of the 5th and 12th houses, is in the 11th house, the
native can confidently hope for a sizeable return through
forecast, speculation, lotteries etc. The period from
17th to 22nd is particularly strong in the above aspect.
People engaged in cinema or music will have plenty of
assistance from friends and their work will be highly
useful. Investments will yield good profit.
     This month is typically good for a favourable
decision on litigation as Venus, the lord of the 6th and
Jlth houses, is transiting in her own constellation and
that of Sun in the 9th and 10th houses. In the field of
social work, the native's status will improve. After the
20th, as Venus, the lord of the 12th house, transits in
Moon's constellation, the native may incur expenses.
He will have a feeling that litigation can be successfully
brought to an end by compromise.
      Retrograde Mercury will contribute to the lessening
 of activity in the business field. In the office, remune-
ration will not be in keeping with the amount of labour
put in. 13th September is quite auspicious for making
arrangements for a long journey or voyage. As Sun.
transits in Pooram star upto the 13th instant, success is
assured in competitive examinations. The assistance
and recommendations of- influential people will be
forthcoming for continuing higher education. Some
will have the good fortune of getting government
scholarships also. Success is sure to those engaged in
political fields. Secret inimical activities, if anyr^Wilk
only end favourably to the native/
    Brothers will continue' to incur expenses under
pleasant circumstances. It is advisable for them not
                             71

 to take interest in speculation, races, lotteries etc.
 The position of Mars indicates that they will have the
 recognition of their superiors in office. Mother will
 repay her loans. She will be happy to receive favour-
 able replies to her letters. The children of the native
 will find life happy and gay. In office they will be in
 the good books of their officers. In speculative matters
.they will have gains. The wife of the native does not
 have a very eventful month in September, for Saturn is
 in the 5th house and" Jupiter is retrograde. Let us
 caution her not to undertake any new enterprise or
 start any investments. The partner in business will not
 be able to do justice to business due to indifferent health.
 The father of the native will find happy celebrations at
 home.: He could not, however, expect any sizeable
 return from forecast or speculation.
    CAPRICORN: (Uthradam .2hd, 3rd., and 4th
Padas, Thiruvonam; and Avittam .1st and 2nd Padas)
     September 1963 is a month during which there will
be a good measure of sutcess in all the enterprises for
those born under this 10th sign of the zodiac. Even
though Saturn, the lord of Lagna, is retrograde, yet he
transits in Navamsa in the constellation of Sun. Health
of the native will be normal from the second half of
this month. His financial position might be a bit tight
in the first fortnight due to repayment of loans, and
due to partaking in happy celebrations. Unity and
peace will prevail in the family circles. There will be
noticeable delays in matters relating to short journeys,
as Jupiter, the" lord of the 3rd and 12th houses, is in
retrograde motion. Contracts and agencies already
undertaken will continue to cause' much concern. The
returns from investments might not be very encouraging.
The whole atmosphere will, of course, record a total
change after the 22nd. The native will have the good
fortune of realising the money which has so far remain-
                             72

■qA entangled. His status in the social field will improve,
.as Mars, the lord of the 4th and 11th houses, is in the
 10th house and transits in his own constellation, of
 Rahu from the 12th and as he is exalted in Navamsam
 between the 17th and 22nd, the native will have the
 good fortune of purchasing houses or landed properties
 at comparatively low and competitive prices.
       Some will have the good fortune of getting the
  allotment of Government quarters. If the native is
 -cautious he may, however, get nominal profits during
  the first 10 days of.the month, as Venus, the lord of the
  5th and 10th houses, transits in her own Sconstellatioh
  in the 8th house. A good rise may be expected upto
  the 10th by those engaged in the field of cinema or
 music. The period of 10 days that follows portrays
  just contradictory results as Venus transits in. the con-
  stellation of the lord of the 8th house. Again from
  20th, the period will change to one of betterment as
  Venus then transits in Hastham star in the 9th house.
  In business, much of investments will be made in the
 first half of the month, the dividends of which will be
  reaped during the second half.- Litigation will tend .to
  linger on as Mercury, the lord of the 6th and 9th houses,
 -transits in the 9th house while in retrograde motion.
  Adjournment, now obtained, will give success in litiga-
  tion at a later time. It requires some extra strain on the
  part of the native to pass creditably in. competitive
 examinations. To those engaged in politics, success is
 assured during th^ 2nd half of themonth. The native
  will have to bear with patience any secret inimical
 activities against him, which he may come to know of.
'This will give him complete confidence aud ultimate
 success.
     Brothers of the native will have much of tiresome
journeys and consequent physical exhaustion. Finan-
cial pressure will be felt due to repayment of loans.
                           73

      Favourable replies will be received for letters and
correspondence. Work-load might increase in office ;
but yet the officers will be considerate.- The transit of
the lord of the rasi in the 7th house indicates that the
health of the mother will'be normal and that she will
have success in her enterprises and attempts. The
celebration of happy functions in.the house will bring
harmony and pleasure into the house. As Mercury is
retrograde, small profits will accrue if the native is
careful and cautious. This is indeed a good month
when the status and financial position of the partner in
life will improve. She vyill not have any inimical
activities from any source. If employed, she can anti-
cipate either a promotion or an ad hoc increase . in
emoluments. The partner in business may meet influen-
tial businessmen and attempts made by him will go a
long way for the business to thrive. The father of the
native will find this month quite dull indeed. Delay
and despondency might be the result for his endea-
vours. Work in office will be on the increase. The
latter half of the month will prove slightly better.
Litigation will show some signs of favourable turn.
    AQUARIUS: (Avittam 3rd and 4th Padas,
Sathayam, and Poorattadhi 1st, 2nd and 3rd Padas)
      This is a month signifying only mixed results to
the Aquarius-born people; . Though the lord of the
Rasi is retrograde and in'thel 2th hobse, yet as he is
exalted, the attempts of the" native will be successful,
though initially there will be some delay. "The health
may go down in the latter half "of the month due to
fatigue and strain. Infructuqus expenses will be
incurred as Jupiter, the lord of the 2nd and 11th houses,
is in retrograde motion. In the social field, much work
will be undertaken and the native will earn good
name and fame after the 22nd. Friends may not be
very helpful. As Mars, the lord of the 3rd and 10th
                           74

houses, transits in the 9th house, favourable and anti-
cipated replies will be forthcoming. Contracts and
agencies, if undertaken, will show some activity. Large
investments may be made by some. Short and profita-
ble journeys will^be undertaken. At office, work
load might lessen a bit, but yet it will take some more
time to get recognition from superiors. Business
will improve by leaps and bounds. The profit might
not be much, but sales will be very brisk. The returns
will be sizeable after the 22nd. As Venus, the lord of
the 4th and 9th houses, is posited in the 7t.h house upto
the 12th September, the native will have good returns
from real estates and vehicles. Opportunities for
higher studies will be more, during this month.

      The native can be sure of success in any compe-
titive examination written before the 10th, even if he
does not prepare conscientiously for the same. But
later on, when Venus transits in Uthifam and Hastbam
stars, there will be a good amount of delay' and impe-
diments to progress. During the first half of the
month, acquaintance of influential people may be had
by some. Very moderate and 'nominal profits will
accrue if the native interests himself in forecast and
speculation, during the period when Mercury, the lord
of the 5th and 8th houses, transits in the 8th house
and is in retrograde motion. But the return is not
worth the trouble. Money that had got entangled for
a long period will be realised during the last week of
the month.- The transit of Sun will be an aiding factor
for the success in the political field. New enterprises-
will give success in the first fortnight. They may how-
ever prove very disquieting during the 2nd half of the
month. Let not the native entertain any fears regard-
ing reverses or secret inimical activities. The really
good period for the Aquarius-borns will be from the
middle of October.
                            76

     Brothers wi]] have mental peace, free flow of
money, less worry, little or no extra burden of work
load in office a uniformly good and happy period.
Their social status will improve. The wife of the
native will have much of physical fatigue and exhaus-
tion. If employed, she will have good opportunities
for quick rise.
                              -V
     The father of the riativc: will have mixed results—
while, in office and.ih the social field, his name will be
much recognized during the latter half of the month,
he might change his. place of residence. Litigation
will continue with a seeming favourable nature.

   ..Pisces :   (Poorattadhi 4tlr Pada,   Uthirattadhi &.
Revathi)
      As Jupiter, the lord of Lagna, is retrograde in the
first house, the health of the native will be indifferent.
Delays in the attempts of the native are also indicated.
Work-load in the office would be on the increase, with,
the result, the native may complain of mental fatigue
and physical exhaustion. Mars, as Lord of the 2nd
and 9th houses, transits in the 8th house which"
portrays that expenditure and financial pressure would
be there due to repayment of loans. Som'e may pur-
chase jewels of clothes for wife, thereby feeling the
financial pressure. The native may find impediment^
and hindrances in his attempts for higher or specialised
studies. During the 10 days when Venus is in the 6th
house in her own constellation, the native may get
some unexpected'gains. There may be delays in the:
receipt of replies to letters-and correspondence; but
there will not be any disappointment. Money that is
overdue may be realised, after the 27th of the month.
As Mercury, the lord of the 4th and 7th houses, is also
retrograde, expenditure will be incurred due to repairs
or renewals of- the vehicle3 owned. In forecast and
                            77

 speculation, the gains would not be in keeping with the
  endeavour put in. Cinema and music would not be
"quite very encouraging. There will not be any troubles,
 due to litigation as Sun transits in the 6th and 7tb
 houses.    Success and fame would attend on those-
ihterest in politics. In the field of social work, the
 native's fame and name would increase. Returns from
 investments may not be very encouraging.
       Brothers will .have to strain much in their office;
 but yet recognition from their officers would be very
rlittle. Their health will be normal. Mother's health
 might go down due to exhaustion and fatigue. Small
 profit will however accrue to her due to speculation.
     The children of the native-will have a happy and
peaceful life, at home and in office. Their superiors
will appreciate their work and recommend their pro-
motion. After the 13th, their financial position will
improve, the burden of loan will reduce and peace and
happiness will prevail. All enterprises would culmi-
nate in ultimate success.
      The wife of-the native will have to separate from*'
her.husband for the celebration of happy functions at
home. She' will be happy to receive favourable replies
to her letters. Some will have the good fortune to
purchase new clothes and jewels.         Meeting of the
relatives would add to the family happiness.
     The father of the native will find the mouth, quite
taxing. He will find! expenses out-weighing income
with uniform pressure all around. In the social field,
he will find his labour remaining unrewarded. One
silver-lining would be that after the 13th, investments
already made would yield a small gain and after the
22nd a small profit might be coming through specula-
tion and forecast.
             GfiMRU       MITHUNAM

                          By
                       Arudhra
      This is the third sign of the Zodiac. It is thirty
degrees in Longitude and it extends from the 60th
degree from Vernal Equinox (or Mesha Q degree) to
90 degrees. Mrigasirisha third and the fourth padas,
Thiriivadhirai or Arudhra and Punarpushyam first,
second and the third padas are contained in this
sign.
     According to Sayana system, nowadays, the sun
enters the sign Gemini—(Mithuna, the twins) approxi-
mately on 22nd May every year. Sun transits through
this sign for nearly 31 days and on 23rd June passes oh
to the next sign Cancer. Those who follow Sayana
system will take that Sun is in Gemini for the people
born between 22nd May and 23rd June, any year and
they are called Geminian. If one desires to know
whether the Sun is in the beginning of the sign or in
the middle or in the end of it, one has to note the
date of birth. If the birth were to be on 24th May,
then Sun will be in the 3rd degree in the beginning. If
the birth were to be on 31st May, the sun will be in the
10th degree and for those born on 10th June, it will be
on the 20th degree and so on. It is easy to calculate^
because Sun moves approximately one degree a day.
     According to Nir'ayana system. Sun will enter
every year around the iSth. June, transits there for
nearly 31 days and passes on to the next sign Katakam
or Cancer on the 17th June. It transits thejater half
or the. third and the fourth padas of Mrigasirisha
Nakshathra, then Arudhra and finally Punafvasu.first,
second and the third padas. Those who follow the
                               4

 Nirayana system and stellar method will record Sun in
 the map in Gemini or Mithuna if the birth were to be
 between 15th June and 16th July, both days inclusive.
      Therefore according to Sayana system, or otherwise
 called Western system, persons born between 22nd May
 and 23rd June are said to Geminians as Sun will be in
 Sayana—Gemini; but according to the Hindu system of
 erecting a horoscope, only those who are born between
 15th June and 16th July, both days inclusive, will have
 their Sun in Mithuna or Gemini—Nirayana.
      Gemini is the first of the airy triplicity and also of
 the mutable signs. It is masculine and positive. It is
 classified as a barren sign.
         Gemini is ruled by Mercury, an effeminate, but an
   intellectual planet. No planet gets either exaltation or
   debilitation in this sign. But Jupiter is said to be in its
 • determinant in this sign as it is the house which opposes
   Sagittarius owned by Jupiter. To Saturn and Venus
   this sign is said to be friendly and to the other planets
   it is considered to be the enemy's quarters.
      Physical Features : Gemini gives a tall, upright,
 straight body ; the hands will be long. The legs will be
 thin and the veins will be visible. Complexion will be
 moderate, fair or dark, depending on the planet which
 rises then, in Gemini at the time of-birth. The .eyes
 will be hazel and the look quick, sharp and active.
 Nose will be long.
      --Characteristics: Being an airy sign, persons bom
   in this sign live mostly in the mind. They will be care-
 " free and joyous and somewhat reluctant. Their mind
   will be positive and strong. They are versatile, restless
, and inclined to have changes often. -
      As Mercury is the lord of the sign, one will be
 inclined to be reading, writing and corresponding
                            5

often. They can understand people and adapt them-
selves readily to circumstances. They can offer advice,
persuade and argue with others. They can explain the
merits and demerits of a case, but they cannot
command or manage successfully.
     Being a common sign and the third sign of the
Zodiac, these persons will have a liking to travel
frequently. These may be mainly short journeys by
land. They are always active with facile mind and
roving feet. They will always be considering the
advantages and disadvantages of each case and hence
decisions will not be taken quickly.
   . Gemini is termed as twins. Mercury, the lord of
the sign, is depicted as a boy, among all Gods, not
full-grown. In the ancient symbolic pictures, the twins
were brother and sister. Mercury is also said to be
' The winged Messenger of God'. Mercury has both
wings on its helmet and also sandals. That is why,
Geminians are very quick. Jt is said that people with
some important and big things to express, generally
elect the time of Gemini as they have the faith that
this sign will give sharp intelligence, adaptability and
ultimately grand success.
     Being a dual sign, it gives the native the ability to
follow inqfe than one occupation at a time and also to
adapt oneself to new surroundings. One should avoid
going to extremes. Geminians may be impulsively
generous at times and also parsimonious with others.
They have to avoid superficiality. Then they will have
insight and capacity—more than enough—to do any
work intelligently. They will have dual experiences in
their life. These people can be relied upon -in any
emergency as they can respond to the necessities and
requirements of the moment. They have a few faults
as waywardness, fickleness and leaving their work
                           6

unfinished. They will take up some work and while
they are doing it, they will go on to another which also
they are apt to leave unfinished. Therefore, they can
be at their best when they co-operate with others and
undertake to do any job. The dual sign makes them
both generous and niggardly. They will gather courage,
present a courageous front and assertive attitude even
though they are highly timid and nervous.     It is very
difficult for others to understand them and their
peculiarities. They are rather impulsive. It is the
impulse that will decide which line of action one will
take. They can never stand any anxiety or worry.
They love diversity ; like the air to which they belong
they have to be moving from place to place or from
one thought to the other. They refuse to be bound by
rules and habits. They are pleased only when they
act unexpectedly, rather than in accordance with
convention.
     If Moon can be compared to a mirror, Mercury
may be compared to a lens. Those who are governed
by Moon will simply repeat what they have crammed.
But Mercurians are persons revealing. intellectual
qualities and show all the signs of mental dexterity and
supreme intelligence. They will understand, analyse,
have a quick grasp with much retentive power and
reproductive ability. Their mind will be logical and
clear and they have quick mental action. They are
always alert for any new idea and fresh interest. They
are quick-witted and clever.

     The house, Gemini, is called the house of oscilla-
tion and vacillation. So these persons are changeable.
They are apt to diffuse their energies and spread their
action on diverse subjects.

    Being an airy sign belonging to Mercury (Budha),
the native will be having much of curiosity and will
                             7

  seek after facts. He will go deep into all matters as
  though he is doiiig research. He will prove to be a
  good detective, a brilliant journalist and an excellent
 schemer. Geminians are governed more by their minds
 than by their emotions. They have the talent for
 languages and Gemini being an intellectual sign, they
 have no difficulty in remembering things. They cannot
 concentrate on any one subject. It is said that Gemini-
 ans have too many irons in the fire. Their range of
 thought is very wide. If retrograde Mercury were also
 to rise at the time of birth, the native will prefer to
sidestep the truth and enjoy a good joke. They cannot
believe what they have not seen or experienced. Their
 viewpoint will always be reasonable. They can under-
stand the other's outlook and adapt themselves to it.
They are inclined to indulge in practical wit and ask
many questions. They have an academic and teachable
nature with a democratic attitude. They have a
humane and genial personality with a fondness for
good-company. They can never remain in ignorance
because they are not afraid of asking questions till
they get a clear idea and understand it.
      Weakness: No one can do things more easily
than the Geminians. None can do them more grace-
fully ; and none can compete with them more success-
fully. But the weakness in them is they should have
the deliberate determination to do their work and stick
to it till it is completed. They lack concentration and
quick decision. They should not give themselves up to
petty strife.
     The defect in them is that- they are always hasty
and anxious to know the results then and there. Once
they have planted the seeds, they do not give chance
for them to mature. They will water and nurture them
but they will often be digging them up to see how far
they have progressed. The other peculiarity with them is
                            8

that they want only short cuts. In the beginning, they
will not mind walking through many streets and roads
so that later they can cut down the distance to
their office. They are able to carry out work quickly
adopting improved methods and short cuts. Events
will move faster in their life than in those of other
persons.
      What is wanted ? They should take rest, take
 plenty of exercise, breathe plenty of fresh air, eat
 conservatively and cultivate physical and mental
-poise.

     Health and disease : The Geminians are as active
as their mind. They generally spoil their health by
unnecessary and unavoidable worry and anxiety. Their
thin build and nervousness give the impression to others
that their health is delicate like a barometer. If they
avoid mental strain, their health will be normally
good. They should hot overtax themselves by under-
taking a large variety of work. If they relax and enjoy
plenty of sleep, they can maintain good health.
     As Gemini rules over the lungs, all the pulmonary
affections are indicated by this sign. Cold, running -of
the nose, Influenza, Eosonophilia, Pleurisy, Bronchitis,
T.B., all these seem to stem from this source. • It also
indicates shoulders and arms. Defect in these parts
is indicated by maleflcs in Gemini. As the sixth house
from Gemini is Scorpio, . people born in Gemini
generally suffer from the diseases indicated dy Scorpio ;
Gemini-borns may complain of strangury, piles, fistula,
affections of the bladder .and excretory system. Fever
and poisoning of the system is also indicated. There-
fore they will have defect in the pulmonary system if
Gemini is afflicted or they will have the diseases
mentioned for Scorpio as it is the house of diseases for
Gemini-borns.
                              9

       Finance and Fortune: There will be a lot of
  changes. They will enjoy life with a good fortune or
  suffer continuous misfortune depending on the nature
  of the influence through the other sex. They will
  experience both privation and plenty during their life-
  time. There will be family disputes and these persons
  will not agree with their father. The Gemini-borns will
  bring about their downfall by themselves. Their
  secret connection in love affairs (if the planets Mars,
  Saturn and Venus ruling 6, 8 and 12 houses also con-
  tribute) and attachments will bring loss and difficulties.
  Some may have progeny through such connections
  which will be a perennial, source of trouble and
- headache.
      A few .may have to marry twice or have more
 than one simultaneous attachment.         If they avoid
 illegal intimacy and if they are not acting on the
 instructions of their partner in life, they can lead a
 happy life with satisfactory finance and fortune.

      Profession: Book-keepers, accountants, clerks,
 commercial travellers, salesmen, agents, representa-
 tives, editors, reporters, journalists, lecturers, solici-
 tors, attendants, postal employees, engineering, decora-
 tive. artists, school teachers, professors, guides,
 millioners, photographers, employees in transport;
 railway^and airways, secretaries, personal assistants,
 tutors, cashiers, club-stewards, treasurers of credit
 societies, translators, barristers, dealers "in cycles,
 scooter, etc., stationery dealers, engineering contrac-
 tors, messengers, embassy officials, consul-generals,
 orators,^platform speakers, etc.
      Gemini being the sign -favourable for oratorical
 powers; successful brokers and diplomats are born in
 this sign. These persons are alert, active and indus-
 trious. They wish to have interesting and varied jobs.
                              10

 Their inquisitiveness, liking for talk and their sense of
 humour make them good speakers and ultimately they
 will be brought to the front of the public.
       That is why they are capable brokers, intelligent
 agents, successful merchants, satisfactory secretaries and
 efficient advocates. They can read the mind of their
 customers and know which they like and which they
 discard. Fully aware of their likes and dislikes, they
 will be capable of selling articles at a good profit,
convincing and pleasing the clients. Mercury retro-
 grade will make the natives a little perverted or supre-
mely intelligent and sharp-witted. Hence they will
prove to be good critics and with the aid of the Jupiter's
beneficial aspect, they will be- one of the leaders in
journalism. If Mars also lends its assistapce, they will
have the fortune to own a press, as Mars stands for
machinery, Mercury for paper and news and Jupiter for
publicity and propaganda. As it is an airy sign and
Mercury indicates art and publicity, Mars and Gemini
will produce radio-mechanics, assistants in the Defence
Department, typists, compositors or mechanics in
aeronautics. Mercury stands for mathematics. The
greatest mathematicians are born in Gemini with very
strong Mercury.
      Gemini, being the house of oscillation and the
 third house of the zodiac, suggests that the natives will
 love travel and movement from one place to the" other
 and also a liking for changes in their profession. They
 will not have the inclination or pleasure to enjoy the
 sceneries but an inexplicable urge to be on the move.
 So they will be very good camp-clerks, travelling agents,
 travelling ticket-examiners, engine-drivers in the railway
 and guards. The difference between the driver and the
.guard is that, for the driver, Mars will be strong and
 aspecting the house for profession (10th house") or the
 lord of the 10th house or in any manner connected with
                            11

lord of 2 (finance), or lord of 6 (service), or lord of 10
(profession). But for the post of the guard, Jupiter
will be aspecting the planet in Gemini as Jupiter is the
protector. Generally Geminians are Jack of ALL
Trades. Being a dual sign, they will try to enhance
their income by doing some side-business. They will
be always on the look-out for new methods of earning
which will bring them more money than what they get
in any substantive post. A teacher may have tuition.
A permanent servant in an office may take up any
agency and increase his income. A typist in an office
will take job-works beyond office hours. Or the clever
Geminian may attend to other work during office
hours, take up his regular work late in the evening and
claim overtimed Saturn's evil aspect and also Mars'
malefic aspect will tempt one and offer him courage to
misappropriate. Hence they should never be allowed
to handle cash. They should not accept the post
of a booking clerk or cashier or bill collector. As
Gemini people will be receiving vast influence, good
backing and supportj they can take up any post, stick
to it, without vacillation and worry. Slowly and
surely they will rise in affluence and wealth. They are
advised, however, to be economical and not stingy
and to meet all expenses with cheer. Money will not
pour in for them. But their earnings are normally, in
most of the cases, regular and dependable.

     * Domestic Environments : " Gemini people will
always be busy due to the frequent visits of business
partners,-customers, relatives and friends. They delight
in entertaining them. Though they appear to be a
little extravagant, yet they will manage their family
well. They have great liking to decorate their home
and keep it in modern style. They will not tolerate the
nuisance of the owner of the house in which they are
put up if the owner happens to be mean-minded and
                            12

they will not mind changing their residence even
frequently till they get a satisfactory one. As Gemini
people cannot keep idle without ever thinking of how
to improve the house, they will be doing something or
other to give comforts to all the members in the family.
They are ever fair.
      Romance Marriage and Married Life: Geminians
are capable of making friendship very quickly. So
also they will find fault with them equally quickly.
That is why they often fail to find a friend to their
satisfaction even though they long for it. They do not
wish to get themselves tied to one. but prefer
variety in life; for Gemini is a dual sign, and the
 natives will feel that variety is" the spice of life. The
more the romances, the more happy they will be. Such
people cannot be understood easily. They will baffle
many of their associates, as they break off association
with them if it does not interest them. Their affection
is controlled by the mind more than by the emotions.
They look on love from the intellectual angle and are
often calculating or cynical.
     Marriage is full of interest and exciting for them.
They arc lucky if they get partners who are steady -and
accommodative. Marriage will .be successful and
delightful if the partner is equally intelligent. Both
enjoy life by frequent short trips. The partner should
be clever enotigh to appreciate the native's alert and
intuitive mind.
      Gemini males need such wives who will always say
'yes' whenever husbands wish to have change of
surroundings and environments." The partners should
not take their flirtations seriously: The natives are so
clever thatthey will end anyromance if they feel that it
is a source of expense and loss. These people will
leave, their homes if they find that they are having over-
 bearing wives. They are unable to put up with constant
 pressure from the partners. Gemini brides are generally
 intelligent. Their strongest appeal is mental compa-
 nionship, and they do not wish to be mere house-
 keepers. They will hot give up their outside activities
 even though they get married, especially if they are
 already in service or well equipped for any service.
 They do not feel happy if their husbands were to resent.
 These girls have to be more tactful if they wish for happy
 harmonious lives. As time passes on, they themselves
 will realise that they can have either of the two and
 will not mind giving up one and stick on to the other.
 For instance, if they want to serve and be a career-,
 woman, they will neglect the husband. But if they
 desire to lead a respectable home-life, they will give
 up their jobs and take to domestic life with utmost
 sincerity and affection. They will be highly refined and
 will keep their, homes tidy and arrange everything in
 apple-pie-order.

      - Gemini people will have good understanding with
  partners • born, in the other airy signs, LIBRA and
  AQUARIUSj -which will form trine aspect with Gemini. -
. The other two signs favourable are sextile to Gemini,
  i.ei, .Aries and Leo. Hence partners bom in Thulam,
  Kumbhum, Mesha and Simha will match satisfactorily,
  their jirtistic tastes and mental attributes being similar.
  Natives born in Libra and Aquarius will have such an
  outlook on things which will please the husband or
  wife. - Leonians (those bom in Simha) should give up
  bossiness and egotism. Arians lack the cultural
  standard.. Otherwise they are happy. Geminians will
  have to give up the curious trait which will hurt the
  partner; that is, their tendency to make use of the same
  words and expressions of love to two and even more
  attachments. When-one comes to know of this, the
  domestic life will end in fireworks.
                           14

     Children: The Geminians arc fond of their
children because they are loved by them. They
cannot be very paternal or maternal in their attitude
towards their children. They may even feel that
their children are a nuisance. So their bark will be
worse than their bite. Their children need careful
handling by the parents who have to understand them
properly. Their minds will be very plastic and yielding
and hence they can be moulded in the right direction
by the parents. They will have much of intuition. If
the parents are not true or try to force anything on
their children, the latter will not take it alright.

      Hand-writing: Gemini-borns will write a little
above the line. The upper part of the letters will be
well-developed. The lines will be short, sharp and
inclined upwards. Their writing will be thin and loop-
less. They will not underline their signature and try to
finish their letters quickly or if they underline, they
will draw two lines one below the other.

     Lucky day: Wednesday is ruled by Mercury who
owns Gemini. Thursdays will prove to be lucky ones.
Saturdays indicate much of difficulties, obstacles. and
loss. Sundays offer short journeys and only on those
days they clear off the arrears in their correspondence.
Mondays will show increase in their income. Fridays
denote pleasurable pursuits and pleasant functions
or expenses. On Tuesdays there may be differences of
opinion and even disputes, but on Tuesdays only, there
will be victory over enemies. The most Lucky day will
be Thursday, and next to it p'nly will be Wednesday.
    Lucky colour:     Green and Yellow.    Avoid Blue
and Red.
    Lucky number:       Five    and Three.    Fourteen,
Twelve, etc.
                             15

     Lacky stone:     Emerald and Yellow sapphire.
     Places indicated by Gemini: Walls, plastering,
coffers, chests, trunks, suit cases, barns, store-houses for
corn, hills, mountains and high places, play-houses,
dining-rooms, schools, nurseries, places of learning.
     Countries-' The West of England, the United
States of America, Africa (north-east of Tripoli).
Lower Egypt, Slanders, Lambardy, Belgium, Wales,
Canada, Armenia, Lower Egypt, Flanders, Sardinia,
Brabant.
    Cities and towns: London, Versailles, Nuremburg;
Plymouth, Melbourne, San Francisco, Mentz, Loraine,
Bruges, Cordove and Nuremburg.
      Animate and inanimate objects: Railways, -trams,
 buses, cars, taxis, aeroplanes, parachutes, newspapers,
 magazines, publications, propagandists, newsprint,
 rope-ways, watcb making, calendar manufacture and
 distribution, microscopes and telescopes, Astronomical
and optical instruments, raw cotton, green gram, and
.all commodities of green colour.
   -. Character to be corrected: Lack of concentration
 gives only a shallow understanding. They are occasion-
'ally heartless, and behave like a cynic. Don't waver.
 Don't examine much your own thoughts as you will
 become self-centred,-and-discontented. .Don't place
 yourself under any strain as it may lead one to be
deceitful and dishonest. Don't try to do many things
 at the same time. Do one at a time. Do not pay heed
 to~gossipsi as you will be easily influenced.
    PRAY-TO LORD VISHNU, NARAYANAN,
RAMA, KRISHNA, ETC. Generally Geminians will
have a double name, like Ramakrishna, Radhakrishna,
Jayarama and so on. Similarly also you may pray to
                          16

two Lords though concentration on any one is prefer-
able. This sign will not allow one to concentrate on
any one thing. It is natural to have plurality. So try
to meditate and concentrate on any one lord most of
the time and to satisfy yourself you may pray to the
other for a short time.
        CAN WE DODGE FATE AND
                BE FORTUNATE

                           by
                     PUNARVASU

    Gems.'—Contd.
     There are a few authors who advocate the use of
precious stones or.gems according to the time of birth
of the native. There-does not seem-to be much of
astrological background for their choice.. It can only
be general. Astrologically, it is not correct to advise
all births in any calendar month, the same colour or
stone. For, the transit of either of the luminaries is
not taken into account for naming the calendar months,
followed by the ^Westerners. It has no astronomical
bearing. . Sun-itransits in each sign for nearly 30 days
and according to the Sayana method, Sun will enter
each sign on or around 21st and 22nd of a month. For
example. Sun enters Aries (Mesha) on 21st of March
and Taurus (Rishaba) on 21st of April and so on. But
the birth-stones mentioned by these authors are for the
people born between 1st and 31st of January or for
people born between- 1st of February to 28th or 29th or
for people born between 1st and 31st March and so on.
During any one calendar month, Sun will be moving in
two signs. Hence, this advice will not be considered
sound by able astrologers. It however appears that
the gems are selected according to their Own fancy.
They do not take into consideration the dasa through '
which a native will be running. This is important.
They have omitted this, because they do not include .
this method of prognostication, while they offer read-
ing ; secondly, they cannot say that, according to date
of birth, noting the position of Sun in a particular sign
                            19

they choose a gem as if the Sun. will occupy one sign
and not two signs.
       Anyhow, let.us note what they have advocated.

 Month                Birth■ Stone         Effect
January             Garnet or      Health and
                    Cinnamon Stone Constancy
February            Amethyst or    Contentment and
                    Topaz          Success
March               Bloodstone or  Courage and
                    Aquamarine     Confidence
April                Diamond or .      Innocence and
                     White Sapphire    Happiness
May '                Emerald or        Success in love
                     Jade              and Fidelity
June                 Cat's eye or      Sincerity and
                     Tourmaline        Steadiness
July                 Ruby or           Nobility and'
                   - Green Sapphire    Fidelity
August               Zircon or         Virtue and
                     Sardoni           Nobility
September            Sapphire or      Prosperity and
                     Fancy Sapphire   Peace
October            . Opal or Moon     Happy dreams
                     Stone            and Journey
November            Topaz or            True love and
                    Peridot           . Happiness
December            Tuquise or          Wisdom and
                    Star Sapphire       Good Luck.

     Let us also consider what Sepharial has said about
the colours indicated by each planet.
                           20

     Sun—YeJlow-brown, orange, gold and deeper
shades of yellow.
     Moon—White, opal, pearl-green and iridescent
silvery hues.
     Mars—Scarlet, red and carmine.
     Mercury—Slate colour, spotted mixtures.
     Jupiter—Purple, Violet, mixtures of Red and Indi-
go.
     Venus—Lemon yellow and pale blue, ' art tints '
in general.
     Saturn—Black, dark brown and indigo.
      He has not mentioned any colours for Rahu and
Kethu, whereas he has ascribed colours to Uranus,
Neptune and Pluto which our sages have not done.
Varahamihira has said in BRIHAT SAMHITA that
Sun denotes red. Moon indicates white, Mars red, Mer-
cury green, Jupiter yellow, Venus variegated, and"
Saturn black. Also, he says, that the following colours
are assigned to each sign. Aries or Mesha red ; Taurus
or Rishaba white Gemini or Mithuna green (Parrot's
hue); Cancer or Kataka pink; Leo or Simha pale white;
Virgo or Kanni piebald; Libra or Thulam black;
Scorpio or Vrischika golden; Sagittarius or Dhanus
yellowish or brown ; Capricorn or Makaram variega-
ted ; Aquarius or Kumbam deep brown; Pisces or
Meena white. All our .ancient sages who were the
founders of the six Angas, with a mine of knowledge,
have mentioned the same colours as the sage Varaha-
mihira, and there is thus an unanimity of views on this
matter.
     Therefore, it is desirable to select from the
colours mentioned by sages and scholars, such a gem
as is capable of reducing the evil influence of the male-
fic planets, and of giving beneficial results to one's
satisfaction.
                             22

      If a person knows the time and place of his birth,
his horoscope can be erected, and the astrologer will
be able to ascertain which planets are very favourable
and strong, and select such of those gems indicated by
them. These cah be used by the native throughout his
lifetime, and they will protect him from evil influences.
To all lagnas (ascendants), the respective lords of the
houses 9, 10 and 1 are the benefics who will bestow
the .desired results. The strongest of these, and also
that which occupies the favourable position, both to
the ascendant and to the lord of the ascendant, is to be
taken for consideration, and its colour alone should be
used. (Itshouldnot.be mistaken that if a sign indi-
cates a colour, it means that the colour assigned to the
sign will mitigate the affliction of the other planets.
The colour of each sign has to be used for some other
purpose which will be explained later).
                     Colour to be used to     Colour to he
   Birth sign            gain health,           avoided.
                         wealth etc.
Aries—Mesha        Blue, Yellow.           Red.
Taurus—Ri Shaba    Blue, White.           .Red.
Gemini—Mithuna     Yellow, Green.          Dark blue and red.
Cancer—Katakam     White, Red.             Blue.
Leo—Simha          Orange, Red, White. Blue and pear!s._
Virgo—Kanni        Green and White.        Blue and ted.
Libra—Thulam       Green, Pearls and Orange.
                      Blue.
Scorpio—Vrischikam Yellow,    Pearls and Green and white.
                    . Orange.
Sagittarius—Dhanus Yellow, Orange and White pearls and"
                      Green.                  red.
Capricorn—Makaram Blue and White.
Aquarius—Kumba     White and Red.
Pisces—Meena         Yellow, Red and
                      Pearls.
      The above selection is made by the editor using
 the knowledge of astrology, and choosing the planet
 agency which is competent to avert the malefic
 influences indicated by the evil planets, and ailso
avoiding the colours ruled by them. Suppose a person
 is born in Mithuna Lagna with Jupiter in Pisces or
 Meena, Saturn in Cancer or Kataka and Moon in
Mrigasirisha 4th Pada or quarter, so that Moon is in
theascendant Gemini or Mithuna. He has to run Saturn
Dasa from his age of 35 to 54 for a period of 19 years.
As lord of the 8th house, Saturn in Cancer (Second to
the ascendant) in Pushyam star, his own constellation,
has to necessarily indicate undesirable results and the
native will have financial worries. But the astrologer
who scrutinises his chart will say that the aspect of
Jupiter to Saturn will mpdify the evil result-and that
the person will have Providential help at least in the
last moment to maintain his prestige and to tide over
his difficulties-

      Let us examine this position. - Saturn is evil to
 him. It has to offer evil results. The ideas that arise
 in him and the intuition he may have, will be comple-
 tely under the sway of Saturn. So, anything that he
does will be influenced mostly by Saturn. If he goes
to market to buy any clothing, he will select only blue
even though before his age of 35 when he was running
Jupiter dasa he preferred yellow, which was due to
Jupiter. Saturn, the evil planet, willgive him the mind
to go in, for blue colour alone. When Saturn is evil,
the results given by him cannot be aggreeable: then how
can the colour ruled' by him mitigate? Should not
blue also prove to be evil? When it is said that
Jupiter aspects and mitigates the affliction, should not
the colour governed by Jupiter, i.e., yellow protect him
Trom the undesirable results. anH offor agcrreeafc'c
oues ? When a planet wards off the evil, the colour.
                          24

the number, etc., indicated by the benefic must prove to
be favourable-
      Suppose a student returns to a hot place like
Kurnool or Delhi for holidays from a hilly station like
Ootacamund or Mussoree or Simla. He feels the place
terribly hot. Is he to pray to Sun or Varuna, to
reduce the heat? The nature of Sun is to be hot, and
therefore it will be ever hot. One cannot alter its
nature. But if one prays for Varuna, then the clouds
will gather and prevent the Sun from further increas-
ing the intensity of heat, and Varuna will also cause
certain rain which will reduce the high temperature due
to the Sun. It will render the climate pleasant, or at
least bearable. Therefore praying to one, who will
modify the evil, will always be more helpful and
advantageous than appealing to the wicked, bad, cruel
and ill-disposed one.
     If a man falls in the sea, his prayer to the Sea
God will not redeem him as Sea has to be deep and he
will be drowned ; but if he appeals to a boatman, he
can get saved.
     Therefore, one has to use the colour indicated by
the planet or pray only to that planet which is the
saviour, and not to the one who is weak or positively
evil. As such planets cannot change their colour and
offer beneficial effects, they do not portrary any good
by owning or by occupying an evil house or by con-
joining with the lords of such houses.
     Hence, the readers can benefit themselves by using
such gems and colours as prescribed by the editor and
enjoy peace and prosperity, pleasure and profit,
happiness and harmony, health and wealth.
    One may have doubt about the selection of the
gem, if the lords of the ascendant, in the ninth or the
                          25

tenth houses were to occupy the 6th or the 8th or the
I2th houses counted from the ascendant or from the
houses they own.
     It must be remembered that lords of the ascend-
ant, ninth and tenth houses become, .benches, whether
they are good or bad by nature, promising brilliant re-
sults; and their tendency is to do good to the native
and reduce the evil results of other planets if, in any
manner, they are connected with the evil planets. So,
one has to note (1) which of the three planets, is the
strongest, (2) which is occupying good sign and
(3) which is not afflicted by other evils. The colour,
indicated by such a planet, will bring about favourble
results. Also, if a planet by owning any one of the
three houses 1, 9 or 10 and occupying favourable signs,
aspects an evil planet whose dasa is to run, it is
advisable to use the colour assigned to that beneficial
planet.
     An able astrologer will predict that a particular
dasa will be evil, when the lord of the dasa owns
either 6, 8 or 12 or occupies 6, 8 or 12, or is in any
manner connected with them. When its dasa is opera-
ting, the mind of the native will be influenced by the
colours denoted by the evil planet. Therefore, one
should try to avoid those colours, but possess that
colour of the planet which owns 1st or 9th or 10th
houses, occupies a favourable house and is also very
strong.
              NO MORE DOUBTS

     Q. No. 1 : Hindus follow Ududasa system for
predicting the nature and the time.of events. In this
method, it is said that Sun rules for six years. Moon
rules for 10 years. Mars for 7 years, etc. Some astro-
logers take' a year as equivalent to 360 days while a few
others take it as 365£ days for purposes of calculation.
Which is correct, and which is to be followed ?
     A.: No explanation is available in any work of
astrology as to how the sages had assigned, 6 years to
Sun, 10 to Moon, 7 to Mars, and so on. But they have
not definitely stated whether one is to take 365^ days
or 360 days for purposes of.calculation.
     But a doubt arises as Hindus adopt five different
Manams or methods for finding out the commence-
ment of a year, its duration and its end, which synch-
ronises with the beginning of the succeeding year. .They
are as under:
      1. SouraManam: This year commences from
the time Sun enters the Nirayana Mesha (Aries) and
runs through until, the^Sun completes the thirtieth
degree of Meena (Pisces)', and rs about to enter the sign
Mesha again. This is around 365J days.'
                                         i   •
      2. Chandra Manam: This year commences from
the Suklapafcsha Prathamai Thithi of Chaithra month
(i.e., the first thithi after the New Moon in Panguni
month according to Soufamanam) extends over nearly
354 days and ends when" the New Moon in Panguni
month is over.
    3.. Savana Manam: A day is tlie interval of time
between successive occasions of Sun rise. Savana.
Manam year has exactly 360 such days.
                            27

     4. Nakshathra Manam: The interval of time
between successive occasions of Moon's entry into
Aswini Nakshathra, is called Nakshathra Mana month.
Twelve such months make one Nakshathra Mana year.
This works out to nearly 324 days.
     5. Bhdrhasapathyam : ' This year represents the
duration of time taken by Jupiter(Guru or Brihaspathi)
to transit in a sign. This, on an average, works out
to 361 days.
     Thus, there are five different years, and each is
followed for different purposes.
     For calculating the Udu Dasa system, one has to
follow only SOURA MANAM.. Mantreswarar, in
Paladheepika, has mentioned that ■ one completes a
year only when the Sun again, enters into the same
longitude, as it. was at the time of the birth of the
native. That is, Mantreswarar takes a year, as the iterval
of time taken by Sun to leave any one position" in the
Zodiac and again reach the. same position. In other
words, the year is reckoned as the time taken by the Sjun
to revolve exactly once in its apparent path, the ecliptic.

Mantreswarar says :
      " Ravi Sputam Tahj Nananae Yadhaseeth Thathaschaeth
              Prathi Varsbam Arkaha
     Avrithyaha Santhi Dhasatphakonam Bhagakramath
              Tath Dhevasaha Prakalpyana
and is of firm opinion that Soura Maham system alone
is to be.followed for Udu dasa Phala Nirnayam.
   - Various commentators and authors of books have.,
explained that Soura Manam is used, for the calcula-
tions of Pinda Ayurdhaya Dasa, Ayurdhaya. Vibhaga,
Pfayaschitha, Sathra (Yagam), etc. Hence, only Soura
Manam, i.e., year made up of 365£ days alone is to be
adopted.
                            28

      Q. No, 2: Excepting Sun and Moon, each planet
is assigned two houses- If a planet, owning two houses,
occupies a particular sign in the chart of a person, and
if its dasa operates, what will be the nature of the
results enjoyed by him ? Is it the result of the houses
owned by the planet, or that occupied by it ? Or is it
the result Qf the first house which it owns in the first
half of its period and that of the other house, ruled by
it in the second half? The results of which house will
be favourable and whiclrwiH prove to be evil? Or
will both be good or both be bad ?
     A-: Sun owns the house Leo (Simha). Moon rules
Cancer (Kataka), Mars governs Aries (Mesha), and
Scorpio (Vrischik^m), Mercury -is assigned Gemini
(Mithuna) and Virgo (Kanni); Jupiter governs Sagitta-
rius (Dhamisj and Pisces (Meena) : Venus rules over
Taurus (Rishaba) and Libra (Thulam), and Saturn owns
Capricorn (Makaram) and Aquarius (Kumba). Rahu
and Kethu are omitted by the Westerners; but Hindus
include them, though they have not agreed in allotting
any house For them. There is difference of opinion
about their ownership. Let us confine ourselves with
these seven planets who also rule the seven days in the
week.
      The owners of a house indicate certain results, as
each house governs certain affairs. So, it is necessary
to note for what houses counted from the ascendant,
the planet in question is the lord, whichever house it
may accidentally occupy, at the time of the birth of
the native. For example, to Vrischika Lagna, Saturn
is the lord of the third and the fourth houses, and
whatever may be the house it occupies, Saturn has, by
its lordship, the strength to give the results of the third
and the fourth houses, indicating brothers and mothers:
short journeys and permanent place of residence;
commvnicnticr. and trnncpcrt rcarectivcly. The same
                            29

Saturn,to Mithuna Lagiia—Gemini Ascendant, will be
the Lord of the 8th and 9tli houses, and so Saturn as
lord of 8th indicates mental worries, difficulties, sick-
ness and mode of death, whereas as lord of 9, it shows
Father (according to Hindus which is to be followed),
higher education, long journey, overseas, etc. In the
case of Scorpio or Vrischika Lagna, the native will
have gain or loss, through brother as lord of 3, and
through mother as lord of 4: To Gemini-borns gain
or loss through father as lord of 9, and through insu-
rance, bonus, gratuity, legacy, etc., as lord of 8 is indi,
cated. Also friendship or enmity with such a relative,
is indicated by lordship. Favourable or unfavourable
results are to be judged by the house which it occupies.
Here, the question is whether it is favourable to the
native of the chart or adverse to him ; and also to the
matters and relatives indicated by the houses owned by
the planet ? One is to note the various houses owned
by a planet and include this also into account while
interpreting the results.
     The results of the house occupied by a planet will
be indicated more by the planet which occupies the
house, than, by that which owns the house. In giving
the results of a house, the planet, occupying it, is con-
sidered as the strongest. The owner istaken as next only
in strength. The results of the house occupied by the
planet will get modified by the planet which aspects it,
and also by the planet which is conjoined with the lord
and which aspects the lord of the house.
     If a planet occupies a sign which is the 6th or the
8th or the 12th from the sign which it owns, it loses
strength to offer such results as is indicated by that
house, but will give results just opposite to the indica-
tions of the house owned by it.
     1. If the 6th house indicates dispute and drain of
purse, the 6th therefrom shows harmony, friendship
                            30

 and profit, which is the 11th from the ascendant. If
 the eighth house denotes obstacles, hindrance and
 difficulties, the 8th to the eighth denotes " Sahaya",
 assistance and courage. If the 12th house shqws loss,
the 12th to the. 12th house, shows gains. By that, it
may be observed that planets occupying a sign which is
6 or 8 or 12 to what it owns, will offer results opposite
to what they indicate by ownership. Lord of 1 shows
health. If he occupies the 6th house, it indicates ill-
health to the native. If it occupies the 8th, longevity
is not much promised. If it is in 12, he will spend
away whatever he has, and the planet does not allow
him to continue to live in his own place and keep up
the bank position.

   . 2. The occupant Is stronger than the owner of
the sign :
      (a)   only when the lord of the sign does not gain
            more strength by occupying its exalted sign
            or by being Vargothama,
      (b)   when the lord of the sign is not conjoined
            with the planet or is occupying its other
            sign, and
      (c)   when'the occupant is exalted, whether the
            owner is in its own sign, or exaltation or
            Vargothamamsa.

    3. • The occupant Is weaker than the owner :
      (a)   if the occupant is in its enemy's camp or
            neecha, i.e., debilitated,
      (b)   if the lord of the sign is exalted and the
            occupant is not,
      (c)   if the lord of the sign is conjoined with the
            planet in its own sign and the occupant is
            not exalted there, i.e., the owner is. in
                           31

            swakshthera, whereas the occupant is
            neither exalted nor Vargothama there.
      For example, if Moon and Jupiter are conjoined in
 Ganter (Katakam), Moon, even though it is in its own
 sign; yet the exalted Jupiter is stronger in giving the
.results (in its period) indicated by the house Cancer
•(Katakam) .than"what Moon can do in its period.
"^ Mars ^d;Moon conjoined in .Cancer denote that
Moon is'Stronger.
     Moon's exaltation in'Taurus (Rishaba) and Jupiter
exalted in Cancer (Kataka) and Yenus exalted in Pisces
(Meena) in a horoscope, indicate that Jupiter, the
tenant, will give the results of the house Cancer in his
period, much more than Moon who rules Cancer ; the
results indicated by Taurus to that native will be offer-
ed by Moon, as he occupies, to -a greater* extent, in its
period, than Venus, the lord of the Sign; Venus be-
stows on him the. results indicated by Pisces (Meena)
to a greater extent, than Jupiter who owns the house,
in Venus periods, than what he enjoys in Jupiter's
periods and sub-periods. That is, if the strength of the
planets remains more or less the same by their occupa-
tion, then the occupant is really stronger than the
owner in offering the results of the house to that
person, whenever its periods and sub-periods operate.
   . The results of the house given by the planet
occupying a house, will be modified by its nature,
ownership of the houses, and other connections, like
conjunction with, or aspect from other planets.
     Nature of the planet: If lord of 3 is in 11 and its
period is running, then he will-gain (11th house)
through his brother (3rd house). If the owner of the
third house is Saturn, then the brother who helps him
will be economical and calculative (nature of Saturn),
.whereas if the third house is ruled by Mars, the help
                            32

will be received with pleasant surprise and the brother
will be extravagant, and over-liberal (nature of Mars).
Jupiter as lord of 2 in 11 indicates gains, by lawful
means (nature of Jupiter), where as Saturn as lord of 2
in 11, may give profit by fair or foul means (nature of
Saturn). So, the nature of the planet also should be
included when one interprets the results.
     Ownership of various houses: Again the ownership
of a house suggests, through which source he will have
the gain or loss. If lord of 5 is in 1,1, one can predict
that at the time he runs the period of the lord of the
5th house who is in 11, the person will have the gains
through speculation or cinema or pleasurable pursuits
or through children, as these are indicated by "the 5th
house. So, the occupant offers the results of the house
it occupies including the above indication.
     Let us see how the results of the house it owns,
will improve or get destroyed.
     If it is either weaker or stronger than the planet,
occupying its house, or if there is no planet in its house
then one is to note the relative disposition between this
planet and the houses it owns. If it is not in 6 or 8 or
12 from the house which it owns, it will give the results
of the house in the manner which the house indicates.
But if it occupies a sign 6 or 8 or 12 from the house
it owns, the planet will give adverse results to the
matters indicated by the house.
     Suppose one's Lagna is Scorpio (Vrischika) and
Saturn, the lord of the third and the fourth houses,
occupies the 11th. house Kanni (Virgo), then the
matters indicated by the third house will flourish, as it
is in the ninth from the third house, and it is a very
favourable disposition. But during the period of
Saturn, the matters indicated by the fourth house will
suffer. Fourth house indicates mother, the eighth from
                            33

it is the 11th house. So, mother will have difficulties
and worries though the native will gain then through
brother. The native may study in a school, and he
may receive a letter from themother that she is ill, and
also money order remitted by her, whereas the younger
 brother may write saying, that he has got a seat in the
college for higher studies, or that he is selected to go
overseas. Here the mother will send money, and not
 brother, because it is only to the fourth house, the
J-lth house happens to be the eighth. But to the third
 house, it is the ninth. His purse cannot be drained.
Brother and correspondence—(indicated by the third
house) give him pleasure;—(shown by the 11th house).
      Further, one having lord of 3 in 11, may have
 gains through editing, publishing, publicity, correspon-
 dence, or working as a sales representative, agent, or
 by making short journeys, or through youngsters and
 neighbours. Further the third house results also will
 thrive, and brother will have prosperity. But the lord
 of the fourth house, while occupying the 11th house, is
 in the 8th from its own. In such cases, the native,
 no doubt, will gain through the 4th house matters, i.e.,
 he may gain through permanent possessions, through
 mother (according to Hindus, which alone is to be
.followed) and. also by dealing in vehicles, etc., or
 through produce of mine. But mother's health will be
 affected and her mind will be disturbed.
     Similarly, Saturn as lord of 6_and 7 occupying the
11th house shows that he-may come out successful in
the litigation, which will end in that planet's sub-
period, whereas his partner may have a child born at
that time, as' 11th house is the 5th from the 7th.
     Thereforeone has to notewhether the planet which
occupies, a beneficial house in the chart, is in the 6th or
the 8th or the 12th from the house which it owns or
occupies a favourable position from its house.
                           34

     If the house occupied happens to be 6 or 8 or 32
from tile house which it rules, the indications of the
house which it governs, will turn contrary'.otherwise-^
through the matters indicated by the other house, the
native will gain.
     If the house occupied is favourable to one of the'
houses owned by the occupant, and unfavourable to-
the other, then, not only will he gain through the
house to-which the planet is in a favourable position^
but also the results of the house, owned by the planet,
will prosper.
     But if the house occupied is unfavourable to its
own house, the results of the house owned will suffer,
deteriorate and the relatives, indicated by that house,
will undergo difficulties, when the native runs the period
of the planet. These results will not operate through-
out one's lifetime. They can be enjoyed only when its
period runs.
     If the planet may be compared to a light, the
house it occupies to that of a coloured slide (the
colour depending on the house), then, the nature of the-
result will depend on the nature of the planet, and the
source of the result will be indicated by both the houses
which it owns, and its Karakathvam, i.e.,.certain
matters and events of which the planet is the chief
governor.
     The nature of the result will depend on the house
it occupies. The house occupied will show gain or
loss, whereas the house owned shows the source.. It is
similar to the light which illuminates the slide, and
throws that colour of the slide, indicating the house
occupied.
  - House-Vacant: If a house is not occupied at all,
then the owner of the house, the planets aspecting the
house, indicate the results of the hous:. They will get
modified by the planets which conjoin or aspect the
lord of the house.



                 Saturn




                                            Ascendant
                                             Moon



     A father is born in Vir^o Ascendant (Kanni Lagna)
and he runs Sani Dasa (Saturn's period). His
Nakshathra is Chithra 1st pada, and Moon occupies
the Ascendant. At the time of birth, Saturn was in
Aries and in the 8th house. In this instance, one is to
interpret as follows:—                        '
     Saturn owns Capricorn and it is the 5th house from
the Lagna, Virgo. By occupying Aries, it squares the
5th house. (Various authors have declared that planets,
evil by nature occupying the fourth or the 8th4iouse,
spoil the results of the house, and will do harm to that
native). Hence, difficulties experienced by the person.
                            36

 will be related to, and signified by, the 5th house. Thus
 he loses in games and incurs loss through his children,
 especially the first issue. His son will not keep mental
 equilibrium and good health. He will be worried
 about his self-acquisition. (Saturn also owns the
 second from the 5th house). Saturn as lord of 6 in the
 8th, forms favourable aspect with its house from the
.8th, and hence he will have to raise loan, and he will
 not find it difficult to do soi as the disposition is
 favourable.
     If a planet owns both the house of profit and that
of loss then in its period, during the sub-period of
beneficial planets,"he will gain, and during the sub-
period of the evil planets, he will lose,
     Some divide the period into two halves, and
predict that, during the first half of the period, the
planet will be giving such results as are indicated by the
house which is nearer to the ascendant, counting the
houses from lagna, one, two, three, and so on, and the
second half of the period will indicate the results
governed by the other house. For example; if Jupiter
owns the 5th and the 8th houses to the ascendant Leo
(Simha), it is incorrect to foresee that the first half of
Jupiter's period will be good, because it will be the
results of the 5th house, Dhanus—Sagittarius, and the
second half of the period will be harmful, as it is the
effect of the 8th house Pisces. (There is a special rule
that Jupiter when the owns the eighth, or occupies the
eighth, will prove to be favourable. Let us not take it
now). Actually, he has not enjoyed anything during
the first half of Jupiter's period, except during Mercury
sub-period. Whereas Venus, Mdon and Rahu sub-
periods, covering most of the second half of Jupiter's
Dasa, proved to be very auspicious, by giving marriage;
 promotion, children, voyage with family to foreign
 land, and satisfactory increase in income, by keeping
                           38

 him in good cheer, and by making him feel jubilant,
 buoyant, and contented,
      Some are of opinion that the beneficial effects
 which result by owning a favourable house, will get
cancelled, as it owns the unfavourable one also. This
statement is not correct. He will have both the results
experienced. He will gain through one source, and also
lose through the other source. In his ledger, he should
have two entries, one crediting to his account and
another debiting him. It will not pass on without
giving both the results. The ultimate balance sheet
may show zero. If one house denotes health, and the
other house threatens accident, during its period, and
the sub-period of an evil planet, he will meet with an
accident, and have some injuries, and during the sub-
period of a beneficial planet, he will have the cure and
maintain good health. The good results of a house
will not get cancelled by the evil results of the bad
house, if a planet owns both the houses.
     Malefics in 4, 6,-8 and; 12 to any house, will
destroy the indications of the house, whereas planets'
in other houses improve the matters of the house.
      Q. No. 3 : Will a native born at a time, having
Raja yoga in his horoscope, enjoy the yoga results
throughout his life? Does the Rajayoga promise no
difficulties to. him* and will he lead a princely and
aristocratic life throughout ?
     A.: Hindus alone judge the prosperity of a
horoscope, considering the various yogas present in it.
The ancient Hindu astrologers have mentioned (a) cer-
tain combinations of planets, or (b) lords of certain
houses, or (c) the relative disposition of a planet to
the.ascendant, or to the Moon are termed as Rajayogas,
and such combinations will produce most brilliant
results. Those who are born in the royal family will
                            39

become emperors, and those born in the middle class
family, will attain power, be popular and prosperous,
enjoying all the fruits of life in this world.
      It is regrettable that the readings given by a few of
the present astrologers who reproduce the slokas
 relating to the yoga, without considering whether or
not all the conditions mentioned therein fit in with the
charts they have taken For reading, and have translated
those slokas, only which are pleasing to the consultant
at the time of going through them, and do not mention
about the unpleasant things indicated therein. liut the
beneficial results predicted do not come to pass.
People, having similar combinations of planets, will be
quoted by these astrologers, to arouse confidence in
the. minds of the consultant, without going into greater
  etail as to why, in their cases, events came true, while
in the case of the querist, similar favourable results
have not come about in spite of strong planetary
combinations, indicating Rajayoga and the other
planets occupying different houses.

    There are a few important facts which are to be
taken into consideration. A thorough study is needed :
    1. One should note circumstances, environments
and surroundings, under which a native is born.
     2. Whether in his life-time, he runs the Dasa of
the planets which cause Rajayoga.
     3. Whether there are planets in 6 or 8 or 12 to
the planet producing Rajayoga.
     4. Whether the planet causing Rajayoga is con-
joined with Nodes, Rahu or Kethu or with lords of 6,
8 and 12.
    5. Whether Rahu or Kethix occupies the sign
owned by the planet which produces Rajayoga.
                           40

       6. Whether he will live to the age at which the
  mutual dasas and bhukthis of the planets, producing
  Rajayoga will operate, and lord of 6 or 8 or 12 is not
  conjoined with them ; or majority of planets are not
  in 6 or 8 or 12.
       7. Whether the planet producing Rajayoga is not
. in the nadi's (nakshthra) of the lords of 6 or 8 or 12,
  to them.
     It is said that the person \vho has Rajayoga by the
combination of a few planets, will have the following,
results:—
     " The person who has his birth in a Rajayoga, will
be a king who will be accompanied by elephants,
horses, litters, palanquins and the like, the roaring of
the kettle drums and the sounds of the conch shell, with
a circular umbrella made of soft woven cloth, held
over him, praised by bards and ministrel, and solicited
by eminent men with various kinds of presents in their
hands. The person will enjoy all comforts in the
company of many beautiful damsels."
      Honestly, the majority of these can' be noticed,
 when some people, belonging to a few Indian commu-
 nities, pass away and use such drums and conch shells,
 umbrella, palanquin', or cot, etc. But one should
.consider how many can become kings, though not of a
 country, yet at least at home, where normally they can
 be. How long can they continue to be so ?. .And in a
 country where brothal is more or less eradicated, how
 can one be in the company of many damsels. Has he
.no other work ?
      The astrologer has to consider, the limitations and
 then assess the extent to which the "combination can
 do good to the native. If he were to interpret correctly,
 in the majority of the cases, where the other planets
 are not strong, and very favourably posited, but only
                           41

this yoga exists, he can predict that the native will get
over all the difficulties he had suffered from the time,,
the Rajayoga planet commences to operate, and during
its period he will be able to realise bis ambition and
fulfil his desire. He may enjoy desirable results, and'
look forward to a satisfactory advancement in his life.
The percentage of iriiproveinent may be common to
those, having the same Rajayoga, but the extent of its
enjoyment will vary according to the environments in
which he is born. A person, worth a million, may be
having a lakh as profit for a year, whereas, another
with a similar planetary combination born at the same
lime, in a middle class family, can have a few
thousand a year. The swelling in the little finger, due
to witlow, will be proportionately less than the swelling
in the thumb, when the witlow affects the thumb.
     2. A person may not see the bright days at all in
his life-time, and pass away, if he does not run the
period of the planets which cause such a Rajayoga.
     3. Planets in 6, 8 or 12 to the planet:.producing
Rajayoga, will destroy the beneficial results in their
sub-periods in the dasa of the Rajayoga planet- and in.
their periods the Rajayoga results will be absolutely
absent. (Yipareetha Rajayoga is exempted).
     4.' Rahu or Kethu, in conjunction with any
planet, will give the results of the planet, in- their
periods, whereas the planet gets much Weakened, and
the results offered by the planet will, accordingly, be-
moderate. If one can compare Rahu or Kethu to
water, and the planet to milk, then the combination of
the node with the planet,' may be compared to mixing
water with milk, when water gets the name milk, and
also fetches a price. (Let us not go to adulteration and
its consequent results.) Therefore, those planets, which
cause Rajayoga by being the lord of a bousej should
                            42

 mot be conjoined with either of the nodes, Rahu or
 "Kethu.
      5. Generally, the results of a house and those of
 the lord of the house, are given by the planet occupy-
 ing the house. Of all the occupants, the nodes, Rahu
 and Kethu, are the strongest. Hence, if Rahu or Ketbu
 were to be in the house which is owned by the planet,
 producing Rajayoga, then one cah expect such results
 mostly during the period of the node, and it will not
 be enjoyed in the period of the planet to one's satis-
 faction. Promotion will come in the node's period, nd
 not in the period of the planet.
      6. Lords of 6 or 8 or 12, conjoined with pla ets
 producing Rajayoga, will rob away the beneficial
 results of the yoga adhipathis. (Vipareetha Rajayoga
 is exempted.)
      Whenever one offers an explanation, it has to be
 scientific and convincing.
       If each planet can be compared to an advocate,
  and the lucky combination of the Rajayoga planet
  to the fortunate appointment of a judge, the dasa
  periods of other planets will be similar to the holidays
  to the judge. When the period of the yoga planet
  operates (i.e., when the judge is on duty), one can
  expect the result of that yoga. Just as the judge, on
  duty alone, can pass a judgment which could be put
  into effect, so also planets, causing Rajayoga results,
• can offer yoga only in their periods and sub-periods.
     Let us take, for example, one who is born with
 Aries as his ascendant, and Moon and Mars posited in
 Kumbha (Aquarius). The combination of Moon and
 Mars termed as Chandramangala yoga, has to produce
 favourable results to him. It will not be correct to
.argue that this native will become an engineer and will
.amass wealth due to this yoga.
                           43

       An astrologer should first note the nakshatra in
 -which he is born, what dasa he has at the time of
  birth, and what dasas follow. Next, he has to find out
-in what age, he will enter into the dasa of the yoga-
  producing planets. In this case, even if one is born
 with Moon in the first degree of Kumbha or
, Aquarius, he *can enjoy the period of Mars to a
 maximum of         years during his lifetime: then he can
  have Moon dasa only after 96^ years of his age. If
  one would have been born when Moon was at the 30th
  degree of Kumbha (Aquarius), then he would have
  had 4 years of Jupiter dasa to start with and only at
  the age of 69, he will enter into Moon dasa. Therefore,
 this native would not have become an engineer or
 earned and saved money as an engineer, because of
 Moon-Mars combination.           A yoga caused by two
 planets will be enjoyed only when their periods operate
 in one's lifetime.
     If there is a Rajayoga in a person's chart, it does
not guarantee that he will never suffer in his life, and
that he will ever prosper.
     In the chart of Lord Rama, one can note the
Gaja Kesari Yoga produced by the conjunction of
Moon exalted Jupiter in Cancer (Katakam). If at all
Lord Rama could have enjoyed Jupiter dasa, it would
be to a maximum of 4 years. In the last quarter of the
16 years of Jupiter dasa, Moon sub-period will operate
only 16 months and this would have been excellent.
All the results described for this yoga would have
been fully enjoyed by him, as he was born a prince.
    When many yogas were present in the chart, did
he enjoy only desirable results, without any difficulty,
anxiety or trouble? In the dasa of Saturn who is
Ashtamadhipathi to Cancer-borns, he accompanied the
Muni, Sage Viswamithra, and got separated from his
                           44

parents. During Budha (Mercury) dasa, he had to go
out of the family, to the forest, lose his father, got
separated from his wife in the forest, wage a war, arid
so on. Only during the dasa of Venus who was exal-
 ted in the 9th house (Bhagyashthana), he was ruling
the empire.
     Therefore it is important to note (a) the various
yogas present in the chart, (b) and carefully interpret,
choosing such results as will fit in with the age and sex
of the native.
     A man may live on the banks of the Ganges. He
can have the pleasant feeling of the bath, only at the
time, when he dips himself, and not at all hours of the
day, A lighted cigarette may" be lying on the road
side. But only at the time, when one steps on it, will
he burn his bare foot and feel the fire in the cigarette.
Similarly, one will be fortunate only, when the yoga-
producing planets rule in his life time, to enjoy the
results of the yoga, including what they indicate
according to the house they occupy and the houses
they own.

     Q. No. 4: The chart given, for' illustration
and the scientific explanation offered by the author is
as under. •
    Explanation given by the author :
       1.   All the benefics in the 8th'house cause Alpa
            Ayur Yoga.
       2.   Moon, Jupiter and the lagna do not receive
            good aspects.
       3.   Saturn, Lord of 8 from Chandra lagna,
            aspects the lagria resulting in short.life to
            the native.
       4.   Lord of 8 is aspected by Mars. So short life.
Saturn    Rahu


          Moon,
         Jupiter,
         Mercury,                  Lagna,
          Venus,                    Moon
           Sun      Navamsam
                                              •Fv
                                  Mercury,
                                   Jupiter,
                                   Saturn
                                     ■/


                          Venus     iViars
                            46

        5.   Saturn, lord of 8 from Chandra lagna is.
             aspected by Mars; hence short life.
        6.   As Moon is in the Dussthana in 8-and as
             Jupiter, the lord of lagna, is weak, being in
             8, Alpayuryoga results.
        7.   Lords of 1 and 8 are both weak.       Hence
             Alpa Ayus,.

     Q. No. 5: It appears to me that the interpretation
is not applicable to this chart. What is your opinion ?

     A. : None of the rules is applicable to this,
chart. One should never forget that the results indica-
ted by the planet will be given in full by that planet
in its period, or by the planets occupying their constel-
lations at the time of birth period. If a person is
wicked and inimical to another, he will certainly do
harm to - the person.when he rules the day and is in
power. Also if any good or bad happens to one, it
will be offered by the friend or foe respectively, when
he is the lord, having authority ^and power to do
what he desires."
     If the explanation offered by the author were to be
correct, then Jupiter who is considered to be weak .
being in 8j could have caused infantile mortality and ■
she would have been dead even within the 2 years
2 months and 29 days of Jupiter's dasa, which was the
balance at the time of birth of .the girl. If Jupiter is
weak, and if it promises Alpa Ayus, Jupiter must end
the life in its dasa.
     If Saturn has become bad by the aspect of Mars,
then she ought to. have been dead, when she ran Saturn
dasa, Mars Bhukti. At that time her age would be 15.
  ■ But she died when Bhuda dasa, Sukra Bhukti,.
Budha anthra operated.
                          47

     The correct interpretation should be as folJowsr
so that one can correcthy judge, when one will enjoy a
result, after calculating the dasa periods.
     For people born in a movable sign, lord of 11 is
Bhadhakasthana Adhipathi; to fixed sign or sthira lagna
lord of 9, though a Bhagyadhipathi, he is yeta_Bhadha-
kasthana Adhipathi and for people born in common
or Ubaya sign .as lagna, the 7th house is Bhadhaka-
sthana. Therefore 11th, 9th and the 7th houses are
the Bhadhakasthanas to the movable, fixed and;
common signs respectively.
    Further, eighth house represents one's longevity,,
and the twelfth house therefrom, denotes Toss of life.
Therefore the 7th. house to all are taken as the Mara-
kasthana. . Especially to Dhanur Lagna, being a
common sign, the 7th house is Marakasthana.
     Venus is lord of 6 and is in the 8th house indica-
ting disease, difficulty and death.
     If an able astrologer were to take that Lagna as
weak as Kethu occupies the Lagna, and the lord of
the lagna has gone to the 8th therefrom and Moon sign
as strong because Moon is in its own quarters, then
Cancer (Katakam) should be considered as the first
house and results are to be read out counting from
Cancer (Kataka) which approach is correct.
     In that case, Venus is lord of 11 and it becomes;
the Bhadakasthana Adhipathi as the Moon sign is.a
movable or chara one. Further, it is in the constella-
tion of the lord of the 8th house Saturn,-portending
evil to health and longevity.
     Mercury is also in the constellation of Saturn and
it owns the 12th house, termed as Mokshastbana.
   Hence Mercury as Marakasthana Adhipathi and
Bhadhakasthana Adhipathi and Venus must prove to be
                            48

tvil. Actually the death happened when the girl had
Mercury dasa, Venus Bhukti, Mercury Anthra. Gene-
rally for people born in Dhanur Lagna, Mercury will
prove to be a maraka. By maraka is meant 'death'.
     When .1 referred and found out from which publi-
cation you could have taken this portion, I found
another grave mistake in the same text just prior to
this example. The chart taken by the same author is
as follows
    The explanation offered by the author is first given
and then the correct interpretation will be offered.
     He says that the balance of Mars dasa at the time
of birth was 0 year 10 months and 23 days.
    His explanation: Lord of Lagna associated with
Rahu and conjoined with lord of 8 causes Alpa Ayus.
     He .added that the death had occurred in Guru
dasa, Sani Bhukti (It is wrong). Jupiter is a Papin as
he owns the 4th Kendra. Saturn, though owning the
2nd house, took the liberty of causing'Maraka in
Jupiter's (an inauspicious planet) Dasa by virtue of his
position in the 7th and as a consequence of his sam-
banda with the lord of the 12th.
     It is said by him that the native was born on.
18—1—1915 and died on 8—10—1938. Hence his
mathematical calculation is .first of all not correct as the
native had only ten months and 23 days of Mars dasa.-
Date of birth           18-1-1915       *   18—1—1915
Dasabalance             23-10-  0           23—10—   0.
Rahu dasa              "0-0- 18              0— 0— 18
Jupiter Dasa. Jup. Sub. 18-1-   2           18— 1— ' 2
Saturn Bhukti           12- 6-  2           12— 6—   2
                                            11— 8—1938
                           49

      ., Therefore, on 11-8-1938 Guru dasa Sani-Bhukti
   was over and how far this statement is correct is to be
  judged by the readers. Actually the end was in Jupi-
   ter's dasa and Mercury Bhukti or sub-period. As
. already, explained, Mercury is the lord of the Maraka-
  sthana and Bhadhakasthana, the 7th to the Lagna
■■■which is a common sign or Ubayarasi and occupies the
  other Marakasthana 2. Further it occupies a sign 12 to
  the dasanatha who is to give health and longevity, and
 ■the planet in 12 to it will cause danger to life.
     Another instance given in the same page is that of
a female who was born on 13-4-1909, and who died on
5-12-1934. The chart is given on page 50:
   . The reason offered by the scholar is that the Lagna
is between two malefics and without Jupiter's 7th
aspect.
     The editor is of strong opinion that if one offers
an explanation that two planets will cause Alpa Ayur
Yoga, then the result must operate either in their dasa
and bhukties or in the dasa and bhukti of the planets
which cause such a yoga as the planets in a constella-
tion will offer the results of the planet ruling that
constellation. Just as a planet's tesults are modi fied by
the lord of the sign in which it is, so also the results of
the planet will be under the sway of the lord who rules
the star according to Udu-dasa.
    He has also mentioned that Kethu in the 12th is
another Alpa Ayur Yoga.
     Actually, Mercury, lord of 7, Saturn, lord of 2
and the strongest planet in the second house, the
markasthana, Mars,, or planets in their stars, have to
cause death.
      6th house, denoting disease, is occupied by Rahu-
It is aspected by Sani, Marakasthana Adhipathi and it
Mercury                        U, ,
Saturn    '   Sun'   - Rahu   9 ,     Sun    Lagna
 Venns



                                                     Jupiter

                                        Navamaam




Lagna                                                 R:
                              51

  was in the constellation of Mars; Rahu and Kethn will
  generally give the results of the planets with which
  they are connected in any manner to a greater extent,
  than the planet,-and memorable events will be given by
. the nodes. Hence RahU is evil.
      Sani, the Marakasthana Adhipathi, is conjoined
 with Mercury, the Bhadaskasthana Adphipathi and is
 also in the constellation of Mercury. It is said that'
 Saturn, the chief governor for longevity,' generally,
 gives death to a native during its^period, if it has any
 connection with'the planet-inflicting death. Hence,
 Saturn is evil.                                         '
        That is .why the-ngtive died-during .Rahu dasa,'^
. Saturn Bhukthi and not -during^.;               asa, Kethu.;
  Bhukti.
                                         •      '      *     h
        It is also to be- recollected that he" interpreted iC)
  .the first instance that Jupiter was in 8,;a duSsthana and,
   Jupiter caused Alpa Ayus. - Now the question arises";
  when Jupiter is in friend's quarters., in Bagya Sathapai
  in the 9th and aspects Lagna,-should not he live long
      Any interpretation should be. applicable to all^
 cases born under similar conditions. ■
                SUN, YOUR FRIEND

 , Sun can prove himself to be your good friend if he
does not own 6th or 8th or the 12th houses from your
ascendant and if he occupies the 11th house in your
chart, i.e., if you are born between 8 A.M. and
10 A.M. when Sun-rise is at 6 A.M.
     11th houserepresents friendship, hopes and wishes,
the longing to have belongings, the desire to have re-
union, the realisation of ambition, the fulfilment of
desire, the birth of children, as it is the 5th to the 7th
house, trusts, flatterers, ambassadors and advisers,
sickness of servants, or pet animals, long journeys or]
higher education to. younger brother, or his success in'
competitive examination, difficulties to mother,<
marriage to children, gains through speculation to'
partner in life, short journeys of father, gains to him)
through correspondence, editing, publishing, etc., and
the health as well as success or failure to elder*
brother. ' Pleasure, profit, permanent tie of friendship,:
progeny, prosperity, progress, and promotion, arei
indicated by the 11th house.
      Sun in the 11th house will ward off the evil ofl
other planets. It will offer long life and good health
to the native. Even if one commences to launch anj
Enterprise or does any important work when Sun is in,
the 11th house, it is said that he will come out
successful without any obstacle or hindrance. Other]:
planets derive their forces and energy from Sun, and:
it is declared by ancient sages that Sun in the lltKi
house will screen off the destructive influences of othei.!
planets and generate constructive vibrations which wil-!
enable the native to come out successful in all impor^
tant undertakings.                                        j
    In the natal chart. Sun in the 11th house is a very!
favourable position (whether malefic by nature orf
                            54

benefic, all planets will invariably offer desirable
iresults) to form good "and firm friendship with people
fen. good position and holding high posts in the
Government, as also favour from them by means, not
   erely of assurances to render their help, but also
  ctive assistance in several ways. The native with
  un in 11 will, in one way or other, be benefited by
friend's help, advice or favour whenever he runs the
jperiods and sub-periods of Sun. During the period
pf Sun for instance, especially, when Mercury also,
rules good house, it is advisable to become a Liason
  fScer, so that he will be crowned with- success
  uickly. This position of Sun will help a native to
^ultivate hope and to associate or join with others to
{have most agreeable results.
   . Sun in 11 shows definite and lofty ambitions and
 esires,- honesty of purpose, dignity and sejf-respcct,
 ain in reputation, esteem through friendship, well
 egulated hopes and social success.
         Sun receiving good aspects from Moon shows
     ains- through permanent investments, mother and
     usiness. Mars forming favourable aspect, strengthens
    he constitution, and gives confidence and courage,
     he native will be-frank, assertive and venturesome.
N e> will have the ability to control and become a
 leader. Enthusiasm, activity, strong will and faith,
 will bring him great success in any enterprise. High
 l
   \xecutive power and leadership, promotion and co-
    peration are indicated. HeTnay. gain, through his own
    ffortSi landed property or legacy or service inGovern-
     ent, factory or goverhineht-aided factory, or police
, r military. Even when he is not well educated, he
   an "gain as a leader in the purchases and sales of
    roperties, gold; • copper, iron, steel, machinery or
   pare parts, and also in speculation. Evil aspects to
   uhin 11, indicate that he may have injury in the
                            55

leg, trouble from, inherited property, dismissal or
reversion, and upsetting of the health with acute com-
plaints of a short duration.
      Sun, conjoined with Mercury in 11, indicates
support from maternal uncle, gains in business, tact
and diplomacy. He will have literary talents (Litera-
ture, science, engineering, banking, accountancy, com-
merce) and fluency in speech. -Intellectual powers and
intuition will get.developed as well as studiousness and
industry. A good public relation officer or publicity
officer will have these two planets in the 11th house
promising a successful career.
                                                 (Contd.)
       ASTROLOGY AND, ATHRISHTA
                    (FOUNDED : 1-4.1963)
                   (Astronomy Made Easy)'


    - By Jyothisha Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


"VOL. 1.              NOVEMBER 1963                        No. 8.


                          CONTENTS
                                                           Page No.
 1.    Mercury—Budha
 2.    Sun, your friend (Contd.)                              16
 3.    Moon, tho Wanderer                                     21
 4.    Mars                                                   25
 5.    How fo overcome fate and be fortunate                  32
 6.    Ptayors                                                37
 7.    Sun:   When is he your secret foe ?                    46
 8.    Moon : ! Unsteady fortune                              50-
 9.'   Mars the independent                                   57
10.    No more doubts:
         King or-Kubera                                      61
         What is tho result of the planet which is
         ' eclipsed                                          65
11.    Position and transit of planets" .                    77
12. 'Monthly Prediction (English)                    ...     78
I -. Monthly Prediction (Tamil)
3                                                    ...     95
              MERCURY—BUDHA

     Astronomy : Mercury—The dualist. Sun has Mer-
cury as his closest neighbour even as the earth
Moon; Mercury is bigger than Moon, but
the earth. It is on an average about 36
away from the Sun. The distance varies
million miles and 43 million miles. This is due
fact that the orbit of Mercury is eccentric
elongated. It revolves round the Sun in 88
diameter is nearly 3,200 miles. As the size
is very small, and its mass is very little, its gravita-
tional pull is naturally
     There is no atmosphere around it.
is very near Sun, and the earth is also
the Sun, there will be occasions when we can
tiny planet. Mercury, transiting between the
the earth, and it will be seen in the disc
Sun. It will appear as a black sharp disc. No
light will be visible which is an evidence that
no atmosphere: If there were to be
the Sun's rays will pass through it, and due to refrac-
tion it will form a ring round Mercury. As there
atmosphere, no
      Further,-one half of Mercury will ever be
 and it will be around 360 degree centigrade;
 other half will be very cold, much cooler than
regions during severe winter. Mercury takes
time to revolve about itself once on its axis as
to go once round the Sun. Hence one half
will ever receive the rays of light and heat from
whereas the other half will ever remain as night
without having^ the chance to see the Sun at all. Thus
that half of Mercury facing the Sun is ever hot and
the other half is ever cold. Even though Mercury
is aout 36 million miles away from the Sun, it is not
                             4

 easy to see Mercury with the naked eye as it will
 always be very near the Sun and the maximum longi-
 tudinal distance between the Sun and' Moon will be
 28 degrees. • Its speed is 95,000 miles per hour.

        Mythology: In olden days, it was known as
  Thoth or Hermes. It is the son of Jupiter and Maia,
  the • daughter of Atlas. He is said to be the friend of
  Apollo, probably because it is in the closest vicinity to
 Sun. Mercury is called a youth flying with wings.at his
  heels, bearing a caduceus made of olive wood about
 which were entwined two serpents, the rod being sur-
 mounted with a pair of wings. Indeed, this symbol
 represents speed,.wisdom and duality. 'Mercury is the
 inventor of Lyre. He is the God of Commerce, or
 Gold Eloquence. He always exhibits and duality and
'lacks concentration. Though Mercury is the intellec-
 tual planet he is called a convertible and mutable planet
 and Mercurians will - generally possess will-o-the-wisp
 character.
     Hindus regard Mercury as representing God
Kesava, Narayana, Madh'ava etc.        He represents
Dwaitham whereas Saturn denotes Adhyaitham,
as Mercury is for plurality while Saturn is for single
one.
     If one wants to propitiate God and if the person ■
has the.following combinations in his horoscope or if
Mercury has any connection with other planets by
occupying their s.ign etc., he has to make a judicious,
choice and cultivate steady habits, concentrate arid
meditate properly, as Mercury denotes vacillation and
lack of concentration,
Mercury                            Vishnu
Mercury and Sun'                   Suryanarayana
Mercury and Moon                   Goddess Saraswathi
                             5

Mercury and Mars                    Narasimha, Veera
                                      Ragbava
 Mercury and Jupiter                 Bhathyanarayana
Mercury and Venus                    Laxmi Narayana
Mercury and Saturn                  Anjaneya
Mercury, Saturn and Venus           Krishna
 Mercury, Venus and Mars            Lakshmi Narasimha
 Mercury, Mars and Saturn           Venkateswara
 Mercury, Moon and Saturn ... Renganatha
 Mercury, Moon and Jupiter ... Rama (Sundara-
                                    ' kandam)
Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn ... Geetha Parayanam
     Thus the combinations are to be taken for con-
 deration .and. a proper initiation is necessary to have
peace and prosperity. Mercury rules ATHARVANA
VEDA.', He governs Sarat Ruthu              (October and
.November).
      Astrology: .Mercury is^a variable, convertible^
yacilla.tin.g, feminine, effeminate, neutral and dualistic
 planet.. just;as a messenger has' to carry put: the orders
of others and act on their behalf, so also Mercury will
hot act independently but expresses a nature in accor-
dance with* the.nature of the planet with which he is
conjoined or itom which he receives'aspects. He is
called ..convertible,' because he will prove to be a
benefic to those, jn^hose horoscopes Mercury is con-
joined with, or aspected by, behefics whereas he becomes
a malefic if he is- in any way connected with evil
planets- He rules Gemini and Virgo. Mercury gets
exalted in Virgo and it is very weak and debilitated in
Pisces (Meena). His friends are Saturn .and Venus,
whereas his enemies are Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter.
     Mercury shows the type of mentality one is
endowed with, as he governs the reaction to one's sense
and impressions. He rules over the solar plexus and is
                            6

the central nervous system. Being an intellectual planet,
the Mercurian is highly intelligent, ingenious and
analytical. He will grasp the subjects very quickly.
He gives the native retentive power and reproductive
ability. Mercury with good aspects represents a subtle
political brain and intellect, an excellent l disputant, a
logician with learning and discretion. He makes one
a .searcher into mysteries and learning, sharp and witty,
learning almost anything without a teacher and ambi-
tious of being exquisite' in every science.       Mercury
gives one the desire to make frequent short travels and
see foreign places. He gives curiosity to master occult
science also. The greatest drawback is that he does not
allow one to be steady enough to complete a project.
Therefore a Mercurian has to exercise his will and fol-
low up any undertaking since, at each"stage, his atten-
 tion will be drawn to other matters, with the result that
 nothing will ever get completed, unless and until he
has exercised perseverence and steadiness. Restlessness
 and variability are Mercury's characteristics.
      Mercury, when afflicted by other planets, makes
the person phrenetic. He will be a clever, cunning and
mischievous anonymous petition-writer. His tongue
and pen will ever be against those whom he does not
like. He will turn out to be a great gambler, the worst
liar, a conceited, showy person, with vain-glorious state-
ments extolling himself, or a prattler talking in childish
and artless fashion. Such an afflicted Mercurian will
be a cheat or be every busy carrying tales and uttering
falsehood, mostly forgetting what he had already said.
Further, he will neither stick on to one place nor to
any one opinion. He is termed "LOTAMAMA" as
he will side one party when he finds some advantage
there and on the same day he will change his coat, join
the opponent and advocate the latter's cause. He will
pretend as though he knows everything whereas actually
he is void of real learning. He will be a talkative
                             7

 person, perverted, eccentric, unprincipled, inconstant
.and boastful. He will worry himself by being hasty. He
 will commit mistakes due to forgetfulness. He is a
 man of motfds.
      Mercury in dignity and receiving favourable aspects
makes one versatile, good in mathematical calculations,
engineering, accounts, correspondence, etc. He finds
pleasure in variety. He has keen intuition and ability
but the tendency to allow his attention to wander stands
in the way of his grand success. But if he takes up
things seriously, he will be " quick on the trigger
 will work rapidly and accurately and come out success-
ful in all his enterprises.
     Once a person came to me and showed the horo-
 scope of his only daughter and those of many boys of
 whom one was that of an intelligent and bright student
■with a view to find out which of them can be matched.
 He also added that his daughter was not willing to
 marry the last mentioned student.
         I said, that he will, get married whether she
. approved of it or not, since both the charts not only
  .agreed but the probability of getting married was also
    promised. I also added that the girl was subject to
    the Mercurian moods.. Even if she had said that she
    would not marry this person whom the astrologerhad
    selected, if she were to be brought to my office I would
    make her'give her consent, since the decision of Mer-
  ■curians could be changed easily. They could not stick
   ■on to one decision for ever.
     The father informed the girl that the astrologer
 had selected only the chart of the boy whom she
rejected.
     The girl remarked that the prediction would fail as
the boy was not rich enough and she had no inclination
to marry one whose financial status was poor.
                             8

        A few days later, the father took the girl and when
  I described that the boy would come by a fortune and
  amass wealth in business, she suddenly changed her
  decision and allowed her father to proceed with the
  alliance. In a few weeks the marriage was celebrated.
  A child also was born to her in the course-of a year
  and a few years ■ passed. The husband was not.
  commanding sufficient finance to satisfy her. She:
   ceased to lead the life of a wife. Being disappointed,,
  she came to me and complained " What is this? My
  husband has not come by any fortune and I am dis-
  satisfied. I have decided to divorce him. Calmly I told
 .her that his lucky time was fast approaching and that,
  it would synchronize with the birth of the second child.
  When I predicted events correct from the time of* her
  marriage till the . day of her consultation and assured,
  her of the bright future, she changed her mind again,,
  co-operated" with-her husband and led ai- haj)py and
  pleasant life with him. In a year, she had another child.
  To the pleasant ■"Surprise of the readers, I may mpntioh.
  he also came by a fortune,; had satisfactory Bank.
- position and enjoyed peace and prosperity.
      Mercury is a talkative planet. Hence persons ruled'
 by Mercury will prove to' be. good salesmen, insurance
 agents, publicity officials, propagandists, orators,,
 eloquent and fast speakers with ready wit and they will,
 be capable of learning many languages (the language
 depends on the other connections which Mercury has).
 If Mercury is afflicted in one's chart, generally the:
•native may commit a blunder during the previous-
 Saturn period which will be talked by the general public
 during the Mercury period, bringing scandal and ill-
 repute to the native.
    As Mercury governs the green colour, the choice
during Mercury.'s period will be mostly green -colour.
Mercury indicating the north direction shows that the:
                            9

person, during Mercury's period, will have to move
towards the north direction. If he is a Mercury benefic,
the native makes his fortune in the north and if Mer-
cury is a inalefic, he. will go to the north and suffer.
Mercury's number" is five. So during Mercury's
periods, he will own a car whose numerology is 5 ; if he
shifts his residence, he will occupy a house whose-
numefogical number is 5 (14; 23 ; 32 I 41 ; 50 and so-
on). Even when he engages a taxi, the number will be
five. Thus the planets will work. GoodTesults or
adverse ones depend on the beneficial or adverse aspect-
which_Mercury receives. Mercury is the chief governor
for education and uncle.

     Physical Features: .Usually, he will be tall with
well-formed body. He will ever be stout. He will be
of average height; 'The hands will be long and slender.
The hair will be da'Vk and the eyes expressive.* His eye-
brows wilfbe curved with much hair. His voice will
be thin and shrill; .if afflictgd." he will .stammer. He
will walk very quickly. Just like Martians, these
persons Will appear younger than.their actual age.
f     Aspects with other planets: Mercury cannot form,
any major aspect according to Western system as it can
never be more than 28 degrees from. Sun. Mercury can
be both in advance of Sun and also behind Sun. If it
rises before the Sun and- is in advance, the native cannot
be so .intelligent as the one born' with Mercury rising '
after Sun ; that is, the longitude of Mercury will' then,
 be less than that of the Sim.
     Anyhow, the conjunction of Sun and Mercury in
the same house will give to the native resourcefulness,
shrewdness, adaptability and an adjusting temperament.
He.will have the capacity to create pleasure in any sur-
rounding or environment as well as under all circum-
stances.
                           10

     There is difference of opinion in estimating the
strength of Mercury if it is within the orb of 17 degrees.
Some say that Mercury loses its power, but others opine
that it does not lose its strength. Many great people
have Sun and Mercury close to each other, Mercury
being within 3 degree from the Sun.v Chief Engineers,
Accountant Generals and Publicity officials have Sun
and Mercury in close proximity and they have their
promotion in Mercury period and Sun sub-period,
showing that Sun and Mercury have produced very
intelligent people and that they enjoyed very good
prospects during their joint periods. Sun and Mercury
will offer much literary success, inclination to study
Astrology, Astronomy, Engineering and Mathematics.
The person will be ambitious, intuitive, intelligent,
quick-witted, thoughtful, studious, capable and aspiring.
He will learn business tactics easily. The aspects which
can be formed are conjunction, vigintile, quindecile,
parallel and within 2 degrees from semi-sextile.

     Moon and Mercury : Good aspect of Moon to
Mercury shows that the person will be quick in wit,
and reasonable. He will have fertile imagination and
fluent expression. He can learn many languages easily.
He will have original ideas. He will enjoy frequent
changes and short journeys. . He will never be pessi-
mistic. As age advances, imagination and intuition
will increase. He will develop any art with some
competence therein. Moon gives success in correspon-
dence, advertising, conversation, etc. If.the aspects are
adverse, he will always be worried, anxious and confu-
sed with a sarcastic state of mind. Moon makes one
indecisive, speculative and sensitive. Poor memory,
temporary upsetting of health through troubles in the
nervous or digestive system, through writing, signing
Or entering into a wrong contract, public criticism and
ioss in business arc indicated.  It is advisable for him
                           11

not to stand surety to anybody. Dealings with close
relatives will not be happy. Travels will bring in loss.
Cautious'action is necessary to avoid slander and fraud.
It is not beneficial to change any house especially when
their joint period operates.
     (The results mentioned for each aspect will be
experienced by the native whenever he runs the joint
periods of those planets according to Ududasa system
and also whenever they form aspects by progression or
by transit. The extent to which it will be enjoyed
during progression is much greater than what one can
have during transit.)
     Mars, forming good aspects with Mercury, shows
that the native will be healthy, active and alert. He
well never be lazy or lethargic. Quick turn-over of
work, ability to organizej original and novel ideas and
short-cut methods are ohered jointly by Mars and Mer-
cury. The native will ever be working as this aspect
makes him lively, witty, humorous, ingenius, con-
structive, skilful, practical and business-like. He will
be showing keen interest in work, will do it with zeal
and exhibit his mental ability. He will have inclination
towards instrumental music, mechanical or ground
engineering (Mars mechanical. Mars Bhoomikaraka
and Mercury engineering), carving, drawing, industry,
factory, chemistry, medicine (if Sun also conjoins
Mercury), commerce, automobile engineering (if Venus
is conjoined as Venus stands for Vahanarvehicle, or
when Mercury or Mars happens to be lord of 4), Mars
and Mercury forming favourable aspects and occupying
watery sign shows that he may be attached to boiler
•engines, Navy etc. In Earthy sign it indicates mecha-
nical engineering and ground engineering. In Airy sign,
it denotes that the person will be attached to Aircrafts,
electricity department, or one who surveys, designs
and prepares estimates. In Fiery sign, it indicates that
                            12

he will be connected with industry, factory etc. Mars-
forming evil aspect with Mercury gives the subject
great mental activity and intellectual power. He will
be impulsive and rash. He will be quick-tempered and
argumentative. He will get irritated and will-jrritate
 others also. He may suffer from fits, epilepsy, brain
 disorder and may be violent. If Mercury or Mars has.
any connection with the significator of partner in life,
there will be disharmony and they will manhandle each
other. Colic pains, piles, fissure etc., are also indica-
ted by these two planets. Disputes, litigation, loss
through theft, risky ventures, careless correspondence,,
hasty decision leading to public scandal and criticism
are threatened by bad-aspects. While good aspects
 give.the person the capacity to jnake his fortune in:
quick.buying, and selling, by being a broker or a jobber,
bad aspects will give him courage and fool-hardiness to-
speculate and lose. ,He will lose through fraud, cheat-
ing and forgery or he himself will commit such crimes:
If either of the two planets happens to be lord of 6 or'
12, he will be cheated. If either is the lord of -the
ascendant, he himself will be a criminal. ~
       Good aSpect between Mercury and Jupiter gives
 the native clear- thinking, correct fore-thought ■ and
"good judgment. He will be prudent and wise. He-
 will possess a broad and philosophical mind. He will
 be versatile, constructive, creative, hopeful, optimis-
tic, jovial and contented. His disposition will be
 humane-; he will be honest, law-abiding, God-fearing,
 religious-minded and liberal. He will be fond of
 making religious' and professional trips. He will have:
 inspirational ideas. He will be a good journalist,
 correspondent, copyist, writer, cashier, auditor, ins-
 pector etc. (If a person expects such a service, he will'
 enter into any of these when he runs their joint periods,
 or, it may be one planet's sub-period and the other
 planet's sub'-sub-period. When later he enjoys the dasa
                            13

•of either, he can be sure of his promotion and pros-
 perity.) If Mars also has any connection, one can
 become the Agent of a Bank, Treasury Collector,
Revenue officer etc. He will be a good astrologer,
 always predicting good results and offering mental
 solace to the.depressed. Bad aspect between Jupiter
 and Mercury shows difficulties,, obstacles, misfortune,
 bad investments, verbal agreements which will not be
 fulfilled, signing of contracts bringing loss, correspon-
 dence leading to litigation and troubles, quarrel with
 the preceptor, ■ trouble in the assessment and payment
 of taxes, false reports, falsification of accounts,
 scandal, ill-repute, loss or accident during travel etc.
 The health of the person will suffer due . to excesses,
 frequent feast, vitamin B deficiency, dyspepsia, lack
■of enzymes etc.
      He may get into editing, publishing, journalism,
 religion, law, bank,..insurance, investment, specula-
tion, literature, commerce, accounts, administrative
■department in engineering,' treasury, income-tax, sales-
 tax etc. and earn his livelihood. He should not over-
 trade.
         Venus and Mercury forming good aspects indicate
  that the. native will be very cheerful and mirthful.
  (Mercury "and Venus can never be as far away as other
  planets from the Sun. Mercury can be 28 degrees
  away from Sun and Venus 48 degrees. There will
  be occasions when Mercury may be on one side of
  the Sun and Venus on the-^other side so that at any one
  time they can"be only 76 degrees apart. Therefore the
■ aspects that can be formed are : Vigintile", quindecile,
  scmi-sextile, semNquintile, semi-square, sextile, quin-
  tile-, conjunction and parallel. Excepting' semi-square,
  all aspects are considered to be favourable, promising
  that they will offer desirable results.' The astrologer
  has to attach greater importance to the houses they
                            14

own). The mind of the subject with good aspect will
be hopeful, intuitive, good-tempered, sociable, friendly,
amiable and merry. He will be fond of recreation, of'
pleasure in fine arts and refinement. The native will
hate dispute and disharmony. Financially, this aspect
promises gain of property and shares in flourshing
companies. Happy married life with a beautiful and
intelligent wife is also indicated. He will enjoy both
social and financial success. As Mercury is for
plurality and Venus indicates friendship with the
opposite sex, if either of them occupy or own 2nd, 7th
or the 11th house, often this aspect denotes that fhe-
person will have two attachments at least and many
partners in business. This aspect is essential for
making money through mental accomplishments,
through writing comedies (Saturn for tragedies),,
speaking on the club and society, designing and laying,
out, pleasant journeys, arranging for picnic parties,
travel agencies, clerks, cinema, drama advertisers,,
commerce, shipping, transport (Watery sign occupied
by them indicates shipping ; airy sign shows air travel,,
dealing in antiques and curios. Saturn also should
lend its assistance).. Further they indicate that he will,
make money through luxurious, beautiful or scented
articles, painting, or through music, radio, transister,
gramaphone, etc., jewellery, dressmaking, confectio--
nary, etc. ■ He may gain through children, wife and
ladies. Bad aspects show that he cannot become
famous and there will be always some obstacle or
other, not allowing the person to master any subject
and also to earn satisfactorily during the joint periods
of the\two planets.

     Saturn forming good aspect with Mercury : Mer-
cury offers the native steadiness, carefulness, good judg-
ment, precision, methodical approch to any subject,
good memory, etc. He will be contemplative, practical
                            IS

and studious. He will not be vacillating but will take*
decision and pursue any subject till he attains
competence. He will have the inclination to study
geology, mineralogy, mathematics, banking, physics,,
dynamics, statistics, and do research, especially when
it is in the 9th house. The subject will have great
pleasure in travelling, lecturing and publishing journals.
This aspect gives strong will, perseverence, patience,,
persistence and determination to fulfil his desire. The
native will have the aspiration to lead in poli tics. He
may hold jobs in corporation, government and such
companies where security of service is assured. He
will thrive in such a business where caution, prudence
and good judgment are required. Jupiter, lending its
assistance by .its good aspect, indicates that he can
teach these subjects in the school. If the aspect
between Saturn and " Mercury is evil, all his efforts will,
be delayed; he may be disappointed and depressed.
It may cause disharmony and dispute, and lead to
debts and disease. His education will be poor,,
memory poor, finance poor, health poor and reten-
tive power absolutely absent. If he were to run their
joint periods during school days, he will be spotted as
the dullest student in the class.
            SUN, YOUR FRIEND (Coritd.)

      Sun in 11, receiving good aspect froni Jupiter,
generally confers broad outlook, social instincts and
prosperity. Humanitarian instincts and a sympathetic
 mind will force the native to do charity, especially to
educational institutions, or^ for the. renovation of
 temples, etc. Sun rules the 5th house of the zodiac,
 and Jupiter the 9th house.- Both are said to be
Poorva Puny a Sthanas, the meritorious deeds done in
 the previous birth.    Hence, it gives the native robust
Tiealth, good cheer, jubilant spirit, definite rise in life,
 recognition of one's action, reputation, name, fame
and .much of wealth. In the family,t only after the
birth of such a native, real luck and.peace would have
been ■ enjoyed. It gives good inheritance. A good
aspect to Sun makes one learned,. worldly wise, and a
scholar. Trade, business and speculation will prove to
be profitable. Sharebrokers, having well aspected Sun,
will be honest, sincere, and helpful to the clients. One
will be blessed with good-looking, diififul, accommo-
dative,-and fortunate children. Judges are born with
this good aspect, and their judgments will be confirmed
even in higher-court's.
       If the aspect to Sun in 11 is.ad verse from Jupiter,
the native will be extravagant, and spend much through
imprudent and undeserving charities to maintain a
false prestige. There may be difficulty in payment of
tax or even legal dispute. Speculation will land him
  . '.in trouble, and he may squander his property.
11 receiving good aspect from Venus or conjoined with
Venus, will give taste for musicj dancing, dramas,
operas, drawing; painting, sculpture, jewellery,
apparel, photography and perfumery. Many authors
nfe of the opinion that the conjunction of these two
planets will bless one with conjugal happiness, even
                            17

though they may cause some defect in the generative
system of the wife, if they were to be in 5 or 7 or 9.
Since 11th house is to give entire satisfaction and
 gains through any of these indicated by their conjunc-
 tion, health to partner and satisfactory profit in
business, or promotion in service are indicated by
these two planets. £ad aspects between Sun and
Venus, i.e., when they are 22 j degrees away, threaten
one with loss. Sun in the 11th house, receiving good
aspect from Saturn, indicates indomitable will,
courage, confidence, organizing ability, patience and
prudence, progress and permanency, and a mind calcu-
lative in money matters.     No subordinate would feel
happy if an officer having Sun and Saturn in good
aspects serves on a Pay Commission Committee,- as
there can be no benefit to the subordinate. Those who
have this aspect will be holding positions of trust with
chances to acquire public honours and titles. One may
gain through mine-produce or by working in a mine
department or by getting a legacy, etc.          Adverse
aspects threaten one with enmity with elder brother,
disharmony with higher officials, dismissal, reversion,
loss in litigation, domestic troubles, depression and
disappointment, etc. This aspect will hamper one's
progress.
      The aspects of planets to Sun according to Hindu
system show how the results of Sun in 11 will be modi-
fied ; e.g.. Mars gives connection with police, military,
etc., by occupying 4th or 5th. or 8th house from
Lagha, whereas Jupiter by occupying 3rd or 5th or 7th
aspecting Sun, gives gains^hrough law, religion, bank
or college. But the aspects followed by Westerners
indicate either beneficial or adverse results due to their
relative dispositions.
     Sun in 11 indicates that the brother will come out
successful in the examination in the college course or
                            18

in the competitive examination, may have selection to
go overseas, may make a long journey and be benefited
by foreigners.
      Sun in 11 shows that the mother will have many
difficulties and that her health will fail. When "the
native is running Sun period, the mother may have to
help the native by giving her ornaments, liquid cash, or
any easily cashable.documents etc., because the eighth
house is to pay to another, and the 11th house to the
Lagha is the 8th to the fourth. He may gain by dea-
ling in vehicles, transport, automobiles, etc. He may
be dealing in landed properties or buildings etc.
     Sun in the 11th house denotes that the son or the
daughter of the native will get married, or get partners
for business and may enter into contracts with
others.
     To the maternal uncle, it is the time of success in
bis efforts, to come out successful in competition, or
election, etc. As it is the sixth house to the sixth, the
uncle may not keep up good health, and may have fo
borrow.
     Sun in 11 portends a very pleasant time to wife..
She may gain in speculation or enterprise. She can
make money by music, cinema,.drama, etc. Birth of
child is also indicated.
     Sun „ in 11 shows that his father may have a trans-
fer in bis post, when he (the native) is running Sun's
period or sub-period; He may make money through
matters indicated by the third house. He may become
an agent or a salesman and gain money.
    During the period of Sun in 11, the native's elder
brother, indicated by the llth house, may not keep
normal health ; he may have eye trouble, or in some
                             19

cases, heart trouble or blood pressure, especially when
Sun is in Pisces (Meena):
      Sun in 11 acts as a benefactor to the native with-
out much effort. Easy gains without pains, is shown
by Sun, because it is the 12th.to the 12th. 12th house
shows loss and secret inimical activity. Further, 12th
house is negative to the indications of a house. If
Lagna indicates good health and peaceful life at home,
12th house indicates hOspitalisation. If 8th house
shows longevity, then the 12th therefrom indicates end
of* life- Thus if 12th house is for secret inimical acti-
vity and secret enemies, then the 12th to the 12th indi-
cates the very opposite of those results indicated by the
l2th house to Lagna.
       Once two birds having Sun in the 11th house were
 sitting on^ the branch of a tree and enjoying good
,breeze. A hunter, (thesecret enemy, indicated by the
 12th house) was aiming at them. One vulture was also
 flying above these two birds, and desired to kill at least
 one of them. This also is to be considered as the secret
 enemy, trying to do harm to the birds having Sun in 11.
 Now, Sun in 11 took the form of a cobra and before
 the hunter could adjust the.aim, bit him. The hunter
 gave a jerk and fell down dead. . When he had the
 shock on looking at the cobra which bit him, the
 arrow in his hand was let loose. The aim was missed,
 and the arrow instead. of hitting the birds, sitting.-on
the tree, pierced through the vulture. Thus, Sun in 11
 which, is in the 12th to the 12th, did harm to the secret
enemies, viz., the hunter and the vulture who were indir
cated by the 12th house and saved ,the life of the birds,
having Sun in 11 without the efforts of the birds.
    The birds never expected the troubles contempla-
ted by the hunter and vulture, nor did they make any
request to the cobra to save it from the danger. In
                          20

the creation of God, there are both good and bad ;
beneficial and dangerous things; yet depending upon
one's fortune or otherwise, one enjoys good results or
undergoes difficulties. Assistance to one will be had
without any application or effort if Sun is in 11.
People with Sun in 11 need not be afraid of any anony-
mous petitions, any tale being carried by another, or
any attempt that may be made by the enemies to bring
ill-repute or any harm. Even witnesses who are called
in any enquiry will, without their effort, give such an
evidence that the native , is exonerated. Otherwise,
punishment is certain and ill-repute is inevitable.
          MOON, THE WANDERER

     Moon is the . most proximate planet to the earth
and it is taken as the most important planet, both in
natal horoscopes and in mundane affairs. It represents
womb of the mother, wherein the life of the native
commences. She represents the mother of the native, •
born during nights and it is termed as a feminine planet.
Moon rules over the personality and form of a person,
but Sun indicates his individuality and will-power.
     Moon is the swiftest planet in motion and makes a'
complete transifof the Zodiac once in 27 days 7 hours
and 43 minutes. It means that the transit of the Moon
in all the houses in a horoscope is within this length of
time. As no two horoscopes are exactly alike, the
monthly transit of Moon will produce " varying results
in each.
     Moon is said to be an adaptable, agreeable, able,
domestic, dreamy, drowsy, emotional, feminine, germi-
nating, inconstant, lunatic, motherly, naval, nocturnal,
phlegmatic, queer, rambling, receptive, roving, serene,
timid, fast travelling, unsteady, vacillating, variable,
wateryy waxing and waning planet, ever having a youth-
ful and fresh appearance.
   • The ascendant or the lagna represents the-body,
especially the appearance, but it also indicates the
character and the intellect depending on the degree of
the sign that rises in the East.
     Always, the planet in the ascendant, especially
that one very near the cusp (or Lagna Madhyama
according to Hindu system), will greatly modify the
physical features, characteristics, appearance and
personal qualities. Such of these results also will get
modified by the good and bad aspects the planet in the
                             22

Ascendant receives from others. Hence, when one is
to offer prediction, one has to include all these points
and correctly judge the blending of the qualities of the
Ascendant s'ign, the lord of the Ascendant, the planet
in close proximity to the cusp and the various aspects
received by the cusp and the planet in the Ascendant.
     Moon in the Ascendant makes the face and the
forehead broad. The nose of the native will be smaller
than those of his brothers and sisters who do not have
Moon in the Ascendant. The tip' may be snubbed.
The body in youth will not have sufficient growth.
Hands and feet will be small.
       Moon in the Ascendant makes the native sensitive
 and receptive and he will always have the desire to
 have frequent changes in his residence, in the avoca-
 tion, in the city where he works and also in the
 institution. . Such persons will even be trying for
 changes. Even after a change, they will not be satis-
 fied and will not stick to the new' surroundings and
 environments. Here also they will be dissatisfied.
 The native's intellect will be clear. Afflicted Moon
 causes egoism,-pride and jealousy. In a fiery sign it
 makes one passionate and impulsive. In earthy sign.
 Moon produces people who will always be materialis-
 tie. In airy sign, Moon makes one dreamy and also
 intelligent, and in watery sign, it proves to be beneficial-,
 and fruitful even though the native will like to have
 changes and frequent travelling. If afflicted by other
 planets, he becomes lazy or over-sensitive of cowardly
 or melancholic or mistrustful, depending upon the
 planet that "afflicts. If Moon is in a movable or a
-common sign and is also afflicted, then the person will
 lead a gipsy's life. He will be a frequent traveller and
 his life will be hard, as he is extremely sensitive to out-
 ward impressions. He will suffer from fits of despon-
 dency, especially when Saturn forms adverse aspect.
                           23

      Moon well aspected is a guarantee for a successful
life and it will help the native in obtaining and enjoy-
ing the desired ones in this material world.
     Moon adopts the character of the sign in which it
is placed ; e.g., Moon in Aries.or Mesha whose lord is
Mars, will, through its influence, be impulsive and
rash. Moon in Saturn's sign makes one earnest and
cautious.
      Afflicted Moon in the Ascendant will surely aflect
the native's health, and one may imagine that he is
ailing evea though clinical diagnosis may fail to
indicate the nature of the disease.. It is also likely
that persons having Moon in the Ascendant, but
afflicted by Uranus or Neptune, will lose their mental
equilibrium due to mediumship or spiritism.

     Beneficial aspect of Mercury is very favourable for
intelligent thinking, as Moon' denotes imaginativeness
and Mercury cold logical thinking.-
      Moon in the. Ascendant, receiving good aspect
from Sun, gives the person an all-round luck, rise in
life, and grand success without any up-hill struggle.
There will be much of material welfare by utilising
properly and with great ability, all the opportunities
and the person will enjoy public favour. Promotion
in service, improvement in status, and expansion of
business are promised. These results will be enjoyed
by the person when he runs Sun dasa. Moon Bhukti (or
sub-period), or during Moon dasa, Siin Bhukti (or sub-
period), and also whenever Sun and Moon, by transit
and by progression, form good aspects.

      If Moon is conjoined with Sun, the native will be
selfish, very economical, and successful in career, with
decent self-acquisition and good rise in life, far above
                            24

the sphere in which he is born.   He will be a Chemica!
or Mechanical Engineer.
      Bad aspect from Sun to Moon in the Ascendant
 indicates that the native cannot make miich headway in
worldly affairs. He cannot have continuity of thought
and purpose. He will be vacillating and miss the bus
often. He will not be able to fulfil his desire by utilis-
ing the opportunities.
     He is susceptible to mental worries and frequent
ailment. The immunity and the power of resistance
will be very, low, and he will easily contract infectious
diseases.
     Good aspect of Sun to Moon gives sincerity,
energy, will, loyalty, ambition, adaptability, ability,
etc., whereas bad aspect makes him inert, indifferent,
sensitive, lethargic, self-centred and changeable.
                        MARS

    MARS forming good aspect to Moon in the Ascen-
dant makes the native ambitious, energetic, bold,
courageous, brave, ardent, firm and resolute.
      This good aspect will offset sickness and weakness.
 He will maintain excellent health, and the constitution
 will be strong. If he runs Mars dasa and falls ill dur-
 ing Sun Bhukti, due to the adverse aspect between Sun
 and Mars, then Moon which receives favourable aspect
 from Mars, will give not only the cure but also rapid
.recovery. He will be inclined to have outdoor games
 and sports. Further he can look for success and pro-
 motion through resourcefulness and enterprise in .busi-
 ness. He will be very quick in action and * highly
 energetic. He will secure legacy through mother, or
 gain through landed properties.
     Adverse aspects show impulsive action, rashness.
and also recklessness. Health will fail. Reputation
will be at stake. In all his enterprises, he will face
many obstacles. Attraction to the opposite sex will
not allow him "to progress further. Accidents are indi-
cated; he should try to avoid disputes, strife and diffi-
culties. He will be self-confident, daring and venture-
some. It causes misfortune in the domestic life. There
may be loss through landed properties, or legacy:
Sorrow through mother may be looked for. Partners'
efforts may end in a loss. Pickpocketers and robbers
will cause trouble. For ladies, this bad aspect shows
trouble in their monthly periods. Depending upon the
sign and the strength of Mars, the discharge will be
profuse or scanty, making one weak or stibject to
sufferings. There is the likelihood of danger through
fever, excitement, operation, accident, fire and water
or by boiling liquid. Loss of mother or brother and
domestic quarrels are threatened.
                             26

        Good aspect is favourable for launching fresh
  enterprises. MERCURY, forming good aspect with
   Moon in the Ascendant, offers fertile imagination. It
  makes the native changeable, loquacious, and • unsteady.
   The native will command fluency of speech and will be
  intuitive and versatile. He will learn many languages
  and will be resourceful. In business, he will prove to
  be a good salesman. One having Mercury and Moon
  in the Ascendant cannot concentrate and meditate. Both
  eyesand mind will bewandenng. Quickgrasp, retentive
  power, and good memory are the be neficial results of
  this favourable aspect. One can get through the
 ■examination easily, his rank depending on Mars. His
  dealings with close relatives and neighbours will be
 pleasant and prosperous. He will make many travels,
 which will prove to be successful and profitable. This
  aspect is good for commerce and business. One can win
  in lottery or crosswords. Mercury forming bad aspect
  with Moon in the Ascendant, shows indecision, worry,
anxiety, lack of mental equilibrium, underhand'dealings,
  writing anonymous petitions, spreading false rumours,
•never hesitating to utter lie, nor to deceive others, find-
  ing pleasure in committing forgery, enjoying within
 himself by committing thefts, intemperance, picking up
  quarrels, losing the position and appointment by. other's
 reports, getting dismissed from service or transfer, etc.
 Journeys will be made which will prove to be a waste,
 in addition to lavish expenses. Any contract signed
will bring in loss or dispute.
     1
       (The evil results will be experienced by one having
Moon in the Ascendant which receives evil aspect from
Mercury; only during the periods governed by Mercury
and Moon, i.e., during Mercury dasa, Moon Bhukti,
or during Moon dasa. Mercury Bhukti, and also when-
ever Mercury and Moon form aspects by transit or by
progression. Also according to Steller Astrology, the •
•day on which he will experience this will be either
                            27

 Ashlesha star day—ruled by Mercury in Moon's sign
-Cancer-Katakam, or Hastham star day ruled by Moon
 in Mercury's sign and also when Sun by transit passes
 in Hastham or Ashlesha stars between 3rd and 16th
 August or 26th September and 9th October).
      Jupiter, forming good aspect with MoonJn the
 Ascendant, increases the native's imagination, intuition
 and appreciation for beauty, Jupiter gives clear and
 correct judgment. It strengthens his' vitality and
 resourcefulness- It is auspicious for fertility. He will
be benevolent, just, compassionate, sociable, sympathe-
tic, hopeful, humane, jovial and popular. He will be
 an optimist, a bull in the share market. "He will acquire
 wealth, lead a happy life, and will also have a child.
 He will attend to religious duties, and be god-fearing,
 law-abiding and dutiful. He may gain through mother,
 come out successful in higher education or go on a long
journey and enjoy fortune in a foreign place, or gain
through children.-It is also likely that he gains through
law, religion or education. Bankers will be successful
in their transactions and there will be no entanglement
of-money. Realisation of even the bad debts may be
looked for. For speculation, this aspect is very good.
He may even use other's money, while betting, and
gain without his own capital. But'anyhow, he cannot
be a black marketeer. He will earn only by fair
means, through lawful efforts. Magnanimity and
nobility are indicated. Reputation, name, fame, popu-
larity and success in political life are also indicated.
     Jupiter, forming bad aspect with Moon in the
Ascendant, shows that the person will have wrong
judgment, speculate and lose. He will attempt in all
games of chance, and contribute for other's gains, lend
money to those who will not return and place confi-
dence in dishonest people who will cheat. Journeys
will end in waste of money. Changes will not contri-
                             28

 bute for peace and prosperity. His health also will fail
 due to excesses. Mother may get separated. If the
 native is a lady, she will be fortunate to keep up good
 health. Mercury also forming evil aspect will lead to
 Hysteria,especially after the birth of a child. In gents,
 it shows lavish expenditure beyond one's means to
 maintain false prestige.

      Venus : Venus, forming good aspect with Moon
 in the Ascendant, shows that the person will be good-
  natured, kind and cheerful. He will always be neat.
 He will put on decent dress, and his manners will be
 very pleasing. He will have the fondness for the
 beauty in nature. (When he runs Moon dasa Sukra
 Bhukti or Venus dasa Moon Bhukti he may be attracted
 to horticulture, to the growing of fragrant flowery
 plants, etc.) Good taste in music, fertile imagination,
 competence in painting, and other artistic works, taste
 for drama, cinema, and frequently attending public
 functions, etc., are offered by this aspect. He or she will
 be gentle, agreeable, aflfectionate, attractive, sociable,
 and sympathetic. The native will be endowed with
 the company of the opposite sex. His success is due to
 his personality, cheerfulness and sociability. Venus
 promises gain through catering to . public tastes. It:
 gives vehicles, costly and luxurious ornaments, decent
 furniture, scented articles and oils, cosmetics, colouring
 materials for nails, palms, legs, eyelids etc., and such,
 other things which are useful for enjoyment in this-
 world. (Whatever one needs to make one happy in
 this world, is indicated by Venus, whereas things which
 are necessary for the uplift of the soul are indicated by
 Jupiter. Venus is for Loka—Sukha, whereas Jupiter is
 for Para—Loka—Sukha.- Hence Venus and Jupiter
 are- considered to be enemies by the Hindus, even:
-though Venus gets exalted in Pisces (Meena) owned by-
 Jupiter).
                           29

     Venus, forming bad aspect with Moon, shows over-
indulgence in pleasure Carelessness in habits, amorous
temperament, loss and difficulty through the other sex,
trouble through partners (both at home and in business),
scandal in love affairs, disapproval of elders and rela-
tives, unpopularity, etc. In the female's chart this bad
aspect portends evil results and she vvill have ill-health
periodically. In gents,it shows that he will spendmoney
lavishly on other women if Saturn also aspects. If
Mars does not lend its assistance, he will feel sorry on
a later date, as he would have spent without satisfying
himself, lavishly and foolishly. But, if Mars also
 aspects, (even though it is undesirable), yet he could
have derived pleasure in her company to his satisfac-
tion. Generally, people having theseaspects alone, are
the regular visitors of the Venereal departments (Venus,
Saturn and Mars).
     Saturn, forming good aspect with Moon in the
Ascendant, makes one careful and cautious, economical
and prudent, industrious and honest, faithful and relia-
ble, conservative and contemplative, thoughtful and
tactful, self-reliant and systematic. Because of these
virtues, he will gain influence, as age advances, and by
his perseverencc and patience, he will have slow and
steady rise in life, and he will hold position of trust and
responsibility. He will receive benefits from elders.
He will gain in business and mine products. Lands will
give good yield. If Jupiter also forms favourable
aspect, he will acquire great wealth. He will hoard up
during Sani dasa Moon Bhukti, and Moon dasa Sani
Bhukti and also when Saturn by transit and progression
formsfavourable aspects with Moon, so much of money
which people cannot save even by depositing monthly
from their earnings throughout life.
     Saturn forming evil aspect with Moon in the Lagna
indicates that the person is poor, and his outlook will
                            30

be narrow. He will be a coward. He will lose money
and health. He will struggle much to make both ends-
meet. His plans will not materialise as expected.
"Maximum labour and minimum wages." Though
cautious, he will be a failure in business. He will have
impediments, obstacles, hindrances, delays, denial, dis-
appointment, - dispute,      disharmony, despondency,,
depression, rebuffs, reversals, etc. This aspect is not
favourable for a happy and harmonious wedded life
with wife maintaining good health. The first attempt
to marry one may fall through, .and he may marry
another, on a later .date. " Purnarpoo " or the first*
wife will be sickly, and she cannot satisfy him.
       So by marrying another lawfully or. keeping
 another girl's company he will please himself. He should
 never speculate and should avoid risks. Parents, pro-
 perty and possessions will cause sorrow. - Young
 relation or mother may pass away and depress the native.
.Cold, flu, rheumatic pains, or affection of the bony
 system will affect one's health. He may receive injury
 either by falling down himself or something falling on
 him.
     Rahu and Kethu forming good or bad aspect will
give such results which the lord of the sign forming the
aspect will offer.
    As Uranus and Neptune have no dasa, their
aspects are not dealt with here.
    Thus Moon in .the. Ascendant will offer its results,
modified by the favourable pr|unfavourable aspects
from other planets of by their conjunction.
     If the aspecting planet happens to be the lord of
the Ascendant, the modification will be perceptible in
one's physical "features, health, characteristic, and
success or failure in one's attempts. If it is lord of 2
                                   31

or 6 @r 11© ((Moon 3® Itoad of 2 Off <£Qirin)), wltem aspee-
ted H^yotlikciplislaeta^thpheresHliiitsabLOuiit tUae Hiiafession
wiJl uiEdbminate- Iflfititiis latll of t, ttte cteaiat©ristic!
will apply to           pantncr iiinllffeaitea, Ufittijs           of 9,
the oharaeterikliff sand ms&rth                     r^fef to tfte ftliier
also, IfllNM0©nsiddaii>6f33aiitl is in ILai^aa, tfts muafii-
fiedl rcssiltte will trafeffertcto bteoltteir QjrsisitaEj-. Hemoe, one
should also iioudude iin ftfis ihtEBpretaton of whMi house.
Moon istthellcKDdd.
       HOW TO OVERCOME FATE AND BE
                    FORTUNATE
          (Lecture given at Delhi and Calcutta)
             Prarthaoa Or Taking A Vow

      This method of warding off evil and. enjoying
•desirable results is adopted mostly by those who cannot
 pray to God regularly,. and partly by a few staunch
 devotees who offer prayers systematically. Considered
 dispassionately, Prarthana becomes selfish ; for a man's
 observance of silence or starvation on specified Thithis
 or days of the week will end when his object is
.achieved.
     Such a Prarthana can be undertaken by one and
all. For example, a surgeon may take a vow that he
should come out successful in an operation, as the
patient involved is an important person.
      A man who is most anxious to have a male child
is prepared to undertake an arduous journey to Benaras
and Rameswaram. A businessman or a share-dealer
may allot a percentage of his profits to the' Lord in
whom he has faith, so that he might gain. ■
      ■A-girl may take a vow to do 'Thulasi Puja ' and
 visit the temple of Goddess Lakshmi so.that she can
 have the bridegroom of her choice. A boy may take a
 coin and wrap it in a saffron cloth saying, " Oh, Lord
Venkateshwara, I shall- deposit this coin in your
 Hundi (sacred box), immediately after my marriage. I
 assure you that I will take my wife also with me, if
you bless me with that bride after whom I am really
mad." The person who finds that his case is weak in
the court of law, appeals to Lord Muruga and says " I
shall be growing my beard, till I am successful in the
                            33

litigation. If you help me to win the case, I shall visit
■your temple and have the beard removed."
     A school-boy writes in his notebook "Oh Lord
-Ganesha, let there may be no failure or impediment in
 the way of my success in the examination. I shall
 break a few coconuts in your presence in your
■Sannadhi."
       A lady typist going for an interview keeps separa-
 tely in her toilet purse, a small currency note and, clos-
 ing her eyes, says to herself " Oh Lord Krishna, there
 is a lot of competition. I have no personal influence.
 I shall send this amount by M.O. to your place at
■Guruvayur. Kindly help me in my selection. I know
 you helped Draupadi and others in time." A thief
stands before an idol and takes an oath that he will
give a share to the Lord if he comes by a fortune that
 night and returns home safe.

     A car driver keeps a small coin along with his
licence and assures the God to whom he prays that he
will deposit some more amount along with the token
behas kept, if He makes him rich and blesses him with,
a car of his own.
     Young and old, rich and poor, man and woman,
alt pray to God for a minute and declare that they
will make same offerings, say an Abhishekam, if He so
manipulates that they get the first in the lottery.

      What a prayer! what a vow! How many. Gods
•and Goddesses are remembered when the tape is off
 and the horses run fast in the. race course. Punters on
 one side pray that their selection should be correct and
that their horse should win the race. The bookies wish
that the fluke which is neglected by the people should
dead and upset their calculations.
                             34

      Abraham Lincoln in one of his Speeches said on
 4-3-1865 that, during election, both the parties pray-
 to God and invoice His aid against the other to come
 out victorious:
      What can God do ? Since God does not speak,
 everyone takes for granted that He has heard his
 Prarthana and that his demand is proper and therefore
 he is sure of success. But if ybu ponder over deeply,
 you will realise that either gaining an object or conti-
 nuing to suffer is nothing but fate which depends on
 your past Karma. A mere vow will not bring you the
 fruits, unless you are destined to enjoy it.
        Prarthana can give only mental solace from the
   time you take it until the result is known. You wilt
  appreciate how a boy aged 6 suffers from Diphtheria.
  The parents take a vow to deposit a sum if a cure is
  brought abbut. The boy survives. At the age of 13,
  the boy learns cycling, he falls down and in 9 days he
  suffers from Tetanus. Again the parents pray to the
  same Lord and dejposit an amount- much greater than
. before. The Boy survives. At the age of 24 he suffers
  from fever and the parents of the boy as well as those
  of his wife pray and in advance deposit a still larger
  amount than on the previous occasions. Alas! the
  boy succumbs to the fever. Consider, He who helped
  him: twice failed now.- Why? Which is stronger—
  Karma or.your vow? Undoubtedly Karma will over-
  come all your Vows. Just as a canal can carry water
  only when there is rain in the source, so also God can
  bless you-only when you have done such a Karma as to
. enjoy beneficial results. Therefore, taking -a vow is
  nothing but taking a chance. God cannot, be bribed
  with the coin or with coconut or with one's beard. AH
 •these are given by Him to you.
        But successful Prarthana creates faith in you and
  it is the stepping stone ' to regular prayers ttiereby to
                           35

improve your character, to be good to the creations of
God, to follow Ahimsa, to reduce the evil done to
others, to increase the meritorious deeds and to have
much of virtue to one's credit accumulated at least in
this birth so that you can enjoy the benefits out of this
virtue in the next birth. Prarthana is like a seed of a
banyan tree. Just as a small seed grows to a huge
tree, so also Prarthana will do immense good. One
should take some vow or other and try to gain by fair
means, never, doing harm to others, but ever trying to
do good deeds. When you see a child, for instance,
falling down and getting injured, you have to'rush to
its help.
     For, how cam ou expect God to come to your
rescue, when youtlo not.give succour to the needy or
the injured and do a good turn ? The lips can never
act the winning part without the sweet concurrence of
the heart.
     The Italians say "Invoke the Saints and hold on
to the plough." The French say "To join the Hands '
in prayer is good ; to open them in work is better."
The Germans say " Pray and Work. " The Russians
also agree by saying "Pray to God but row to the
Shore." Thus it can be. seen thatGod Helps those
That, Help Themselves. "
                        PRAYERS
              More things are wrought by prayer
            . Than this world dreams of.
                                                  —Tennyson
     Serving God is doing good to man, but praying is
thought, an easier service and, therefore, it is more
generally chosen. Prayer is one of the most effective
methods to be followed by one and all, to have their
desires fulfilled and their ambitions realised. The
present day science cannot explain the extraordinary
results enjoyed by the people offering sincere prayers.
We can call the effect of the prayer a miracle, till
the science is capable of explaining it, when it will
cease to be a miracle or superstition.
      When a person is depressed due to his ill-health,
 or due to the ailment of one in whom he is very
 much interested, or worried due to litigation, or
 anxious to have a child, or eager to come out success-
 ful in any examination or interview, or ambitious in
 getting a promotion, or in entering into service, or
 to have a business of his own, it is the prayer that
.develops strength of mind, gives courage and sanction
 that which he or she needs. ' Cowper says " Even
 the prayers of an ant reach to Heaven."
      Every action must have a reaction, and hence
 prayer has to avert the undesirable results and- also
 grant those which are needed by thepersoff Rain has
-to bring down not only the temperature but also nourish
     the plants. It is triie..
      But one may ask, if a person has done evil in the
  previous birth, and he is to suffer according to Karma
  theory, can he avert it now by offering prayers ? If
  one is to be punished for the serious crime committed
■ by him, he will never pray, nor will do prayers regularly
  and vigorously to that extent, which is needed to over-
come it His own Karma will prevent him from offer-
ing prayers. Even if he prays, he will do it without his
heart in it, whereas his mind will be wandering. He
cannot concentrate even' for a minute. His prayers will
become useless. A person may try to have a long jump
to cross a dirty canal, but he will jump only upto a
part of it. He will fall in it, and suffer. All are due
to his Karma. Therefore, the real enemy to the person
is his Karma which originates from his Kama or' desire.
He can overcome the evil if it is pardonable, by cons-
tant and continuous prayers. Hence, in this life, the
Icarma should be to pray to God, and thereby one can
obtain His Grace and get over the difficulties. Only
by doing now such a meritorious karma, he can avert
the evil due to the original karma done by him in
the previous birth.

       In raeial proverbs, S. G. Champion has said:
■* If you pray and with - faith even to a Sardine's
 head, it will grant what you wish.' Suppose there
 are 'three persons of whom one has committed a
  very serious crime, one a negligible mistake, and the
 other" a pardonable one, and also repents. The first per-
  son steps into the river and. he gets drowned, as he will
 not be given the mind to seek for any assistance to cross
  the river, and so he meets with a watery grave. The
 second person gets into the river cautiously, learns
.swimming in the same river water, and by his own
 efforts reaches the other bank, He does not bank
 upon anything except, his own efforts (karma), and Jdue
 to much of his meritorious deeds in the previous birth
 with a little of 'pardonable mistake', he takes pains to
 learn how to. overcome the difficulty and gains his
 object. The third person who had done pardonable
 crime, prays much to God, and when he gets into the
 river, he"finds a boat ready to carry him to the other
 bank. Thus, according to. the extent to which one has
                             39

■committed sin, one will be inclined to do prayers and
 enjoy the fruits of the same.
      Also, when one finds that, by his own efforts in the
world or through others, he is unable to gain the thing
he desires to possess, or to avoid the disagreeable results,
•one resorts to prayers: Even in our daily life we see
 that one takes Aspro or Anacin or Saridon, etc., if one
has severe headache. When there is no remedy, he
goes to a doctor. When he is also not helpful by
giving a cure, he begins to pray' to God.             If he
surrenders, he has the cure. -Only those who can
have the cure and who are destined to survive .will
completely surrender.
      The Vedas prescribe various methods to propitiate
•God and ' to receive His blessings, so that he can
have his various desires fulfilled and also ward off
 various evils. Having complete faith in Him, one has
 to'be praying without trying to observe or test whether
the fruit of the prayers are accruing or not. If one
•sows a seed and pours water to it, he should not be
•daily removing the earth, trying to find out whether it
 has sprouted, and if so, how far the root has, gone etc.
G'ne has to pray, keeping equanimity of mind in his
.success or failure. Have faith. Completely surrender.
 Remember when Lord Krishna came to Draupadi's
rescue.
      Only the experience of people who • had enjoyed
the fruits are to be considered. Dhruva, the young
 prince, prayed sincerely and received benefits to-an
•extent much greater than his wish when he commenced
to pray.
      Not only people but also animals and birds
.achieve their aim, by thinking^of God, and sincerely
praying to Him. Gajendra Moksha clearly explains
that our life in this world is more like a Sagaram
                            40

(tank or ocean). The ties and bondage, kama and
karma are the crocodiles in the Sagaram. Kama and
Karma are very powerful and they drag you deep into*
the miserable worldly life, just like the crocodile in the
water. Even if your mental will is equal to the-
strength of an elephant, the samsara sagaram is so-
powerful, that it is imposible-for the elephant to resist
and get out of its clutch or to fulfil its desire. Prayer
alone will save one from danger, just as the elephant,
which was in the clutches of the crocodile, got.
released by praying to Lord Vishnu.
        One may say: * I also know this story. If God
  Vishnu can pardon the elephant and bless it for mere
  mentioning of one of his names, i.e., only once crying
  ' Adhi Moolamae' how is it that I continue to be ever in
.'difficulties, even though I use the word 'Adhi Moolam *
 at least 100 times a day while calling my gardener
  'Adhi Moolam ' and also while praying I think of~Him
 alone ?
      Suppose your father left to his two sons (you and
your brother) a loan of Rs. 40,000 each, when he
passed away. Your brother had been returning the
loan, bit by bit, and only one rupee is left out as the
balance to be paid. But you have returned only a part
of the loan. Hence, when your brother pays back one
rupee, his debts are cleared in full, and he is free. But,
in your case, you have to repay the balance over a long,
period. Similarly, the elephant had to wash off the
last bit of sin which it did by that one cry. When I
consider your sufferings which I am aware of, I have to-
advise that you have to be patiently praying to God and
finally you will also be blessed by God when it is full.
     A man has a bundle of grass and he calls the cows
in the shed. One cow (due to its fate), standing close
to him, gets its quota immediately, by pacing only one;
                           41

step. The other cow comes running on, looking at the-
grass. It takes time to receive the same. Thus, one's,
reaping the fruit immediately or late, depends on the
Karma done previously. If prayer does not confer
peace and prosperity on any, he can be sure that nothing
else in this world will. Prayer is the essence of religion
and it appeals for something in a spirit of humility,,
which finally ends in self-purification. People are
fallible. To have infallible guidance for our progress
and peace, we have to pray. If the preachers of.
religion may be compared to a prism, then God who is
ONE may be compared to the Sun, and the different,
coloured rays which emerge from it, to the various-
religions. The source of the light is the same. There- 1
fore, in whichever part of the world one is born, or
whichever religion one follows, one may pray to the-
Lord or God or Goddess to ward off evil, and every-
thing will reach God.
      Religion says that every person has got divinity
 within himself and that he loses the innate divinity due
 to lust, attachment, jealousy, gr«ed and other evils
 which are also inborn. When these latter overpower him,,
 the innate divinity does not play. He becoms blind
 just as the cataract in the eye blinds him. If the Eye:
 Doctor removes the cataract, the eyes again begin'to-
•function, and he is able to see as before.
     The Eye Doctor should be an expert and well,
experienced. Otherwise, the patient will lose his sight.
So also, he who gives the proper advice to the consul-
tant, should be a learned and wise Guru. It is after
initiation by a Sath Guru, that one has to pray with
deep concentration and meditation. To read the verses
found in the book without being blessed by a Guru, will,
be similar to one who tries to remove the cataract from
hiseyes, after studying some textbooks. Therefore,
the first essential factor is to find out a GURU:
                               42

      Also it is said that Gurus should not initiate such
 ^people who have the following characteristics :
      " Nindhakaya. Ku sishyaya, Kalaya, Kudilaya cha,
      DhusWaya Parasisyaya Ghadhakaya Sadaya cha
      V anchakayo Varaghc aya Brahihani G ama nay a cha
      Asakthaya cha Kmuraya Guru Dhroha rathaya cha
      Ma dhathavyam Na dhathavyam Na dhathavyam Katha
                                 1
        chana." .
       As the sages have stressed much. on the' conduct
 sind good behaviour of the disciple, one • will consider
 how he is and how he has to correct himself, before
 approaching a Guru.-, > This is the first stage to have
 peace arid prosperity. He. further understands that
 " Guru Bhakthaya dhathavyam Sa chisyaya Vishesha-
 ihaha" ; i.e., one should" respect his Guru and that
 ^ Guru Santhusti Mathrena Kalow Prathyaksha siddhi-
 tham"; i.e., if Guru is pleased, God will answer him.
 It is certain.
       So, one (does not "continue to think, speak or do
 •eVil to others, but improves himself arid placing strong
.-faith; one waits for the initiation.
         After, having learnt from the Guru, one is "advised to
  -pray, sitting quietly in one place, concehtraing upon
   God: Mere recitation with the lips will not do.No
  -eviJ thought should assail him. It has to be a heartfelt
   prayer, when it becomes the most potent instrument of
  .action. . Deep meditatioricah be developed by practice.
, :One can pray               ,■
         Ekanthac, Nir janae Arariy ae Gahvarae cha Rananganae
       ' Sindhu Thccrac cha Ga'ngheeyae Koolae Vrikshathalae
         Sarva Devalayae.Tbcerthae Labdhwa Samyak Japam
                                                        CHARAETH
.TJndistUrbed by others, he has to pray silently. Silence
Js a great help to a seekerIf one prays like this, it is
tsure that he will be conferred with immense good.
                             43

       Generally, the Guru gives some Mantra and asks
  the'disciple to be repeating the same. - If one does hot
[know the meaning of the mantra, it does not matter.
 Having full faith, he can be repeating with sincerity.
 The important' factor is that there should be the vital
play of emotion and light in the mind. If he knows
 the meaning, it is very good. Better still, if- it is in his
 mother tongue! He can automatically bring, into, the
 mind, the.various attributes of God. If a'drug is given
 to one, who is in a cOma'stage,, without his know-
 ledge, it will act, and produce anxffectinhim, as much
 as it does in one,-who takes the medicine fully aware.
 Of what he does and what the driig can do for him. In .
prayers, if one knows.the meaning, he will have greater
 emotion and feeling and it. will assist him in concentra-
 ting more upon '.God to whom he prays.

      Therefore, people who want to ward off evil and
 gain pleasure, peace and prosperity, have to give up
 those undesirable characteristics, approach a Sath Guru,
'for initiation and pray "according to the instructions of
 the Giiru. Then SUCCESS IS CERTAIN. Only those
 who are destined to have success will get a Sath Guru,
 and pray with a loving heart, all "its woTds being
 hidden "

      Astrologically, one will pray to the deity indicated
by the 5th house; the planets occupying the 5th house;
the planets in the constellations bf those, occupying
the. 5th house; the lord of the 5th.house the . planets
occupying-the constellations pf the lor.d of the 5th
house with modifications from the planets conjoining
thbm and'also aspecting them.

     To each individual, there may not. be only one
lord according to the above rules. But he is advised .
by the astrblogerssTo pray to many,-off and on....
                            44

      A person may have one chronic ailment and
 according to the change of dasa and bhukthi, he may
 suffer from some other diseases also. Similarly, one
will be praying mainly to one God, indicated by the
strongest benefic, and according to the change in the dasa
and bhukthi, he will pray to the God described in other
forms though He is one. The other forms taken in a
hew sub-period will be commenced, when the period
commences and it will automatically end when the
period or the periods of other planets under its sway,.
are over. Prayer to Lords in. forms other than the main
One^ is also necessary. Just as one. will be going on
taking specific medicine for the chronic ailment
throughout his life, he prays to the Main God initiated
by his Guru. But whenever other diseases appear, one
has to take rqedicine according to the nature of the
disease from wnich he suffers.

     Similarly, one can pray for such deity accord-
ing to his wish to get over the troubles and to gain his.
desires. Desire or difficulty may'be as follows :—■.
    1.   Longevity: To have long life.
    2.   Health :     To get rid of ailments.
    3.   To avert accidents.
    4.   To have.ihcrease in one's income.
    5.   To get rid of the borrowings.
     6. "To.come by fortune.
     7. To get married in time.
    -8... To have the same bride or bridegroom„as one
            . desires'.
-   9.   To have a happy' and harmonious married
        " .. life.
    10. To have children."
                           45

11-    To have at least one daughter.
.12.   To have at least one son.
13.    To avert divorce.
14.    To have children with long life.
15.    To get promotion.
16.    To win the favour of the officer. ;
       To come out successful in litigation.
       To come out successful in election.
19.    To root out the enemy's treacherous plan.
20.. To avoid losses by theft, or cheating, and
21. To enjoy peace of mind:

          Whom to pray, how, when, etc., will follow.
SUN: WHEN IS HE YOUR SECRET FOE?
                 (Sun in the 12th house)

     Twelfth.'house will be occupied by Sun to those
persons whose birth happens to be between the time of"
sunrise and two hours" after Sunrise.
      Twelfth house signifies secret enemies and their
Activities, sorrow, ' suicide, segregation, • isolation,"
 hospitalisation, affliction, assassination, malice, tribu-
lation, imprisonment, treason, treacherous action, loss,
 expenses, investment, life in a foreign place, change of
place and thorough change in surroundings and environ-
ment and left eye.. It also indicates the profession of
the first younger brother or sister (10th house to the
3r'd house), his/her name, fame and reputation, long
journey- of mother (9th house to the 4th), mother's,
father (9th house to the 4th), danger to children.(8th
house to the 5th) and their "difficulties, • partner of
maternal uncle (7th house to the ..6th) and his opposi-
tion,. servant's wives (again 7th to 6th), .wife's debts
and disease (6th house to the 7th), father's mother (4th
house to" the 9th) and elder brother's self-acquisition •
(2nd- house to the 11 th).
     - Sun in the twelfth house causes'ilUhealth at. the
age of 36 when one has to be hale and healthy. It gives
unexpected, uucommon, unnecessary and unavoidable
expenses, It Will "give such friends as will take from
the.native something for nothing, and both'would be
dishonest. These persons, will bribe people in power
and try to secure their, favour, but will finally be dis-
appointed. Or, one may receive bribes and; lose his
"position and power, as he will be caught and "dismissed
or imprisoned or both. Occasionally, some of them
•will be trapped and penalised.
                           47

     A few, moslly born in Pisces or Meena Lagna^
may send away their subordinates indicated by the 6th
house (to Meena-Lagna borns Sun is lord of the 6th
house, representing employees) from service who, in
turn, will give information or write anonymous peti-
tions to the Income Tax Department, thereby making
the native pay a-larger amount as tax than he otherwise-
would.
     People born in Aquarius may .'rob away something
with the assistance of another, indicated by the 7thr
house. It is perhaps likely that the nativej with Aqua-
rius as Ascendant,, may not have shared the gains to .
the satisfaction of his partner (7th house "represents the-
partner in business), and the latter may pass on infor-
mation to the authorities and put the native to trouble",.
     Sun in the i2th house, when afflicted by Saturn,.-
gives such, results as will cause sorrow and lead one to-
commit suicide.
     Sun, afflicted by. lord of 6 or conjoined with lord
of 6, indicates that one will suffer seriously from such:
a disease as will necessitate hospitalisation.
     Sun in 12 afflicted by lord of 8 dr conjoined withr
 him,' threatens one with an-unnatural end, either by.
.being murdered by. enemies or through accidents.
     Sun in the 12th house conjoined with malefics or.
with malefics in 2, 5 and 9 is unfavourable for one's
prestige and honour. He. will be. imprisoned during
Sun's periods and sub-periods. Benefics in 2, 5 and 9,.
and Sim in 12, will keep one in detentipn or political
prison. Jupiter with Sun. in-12 causes jail, for civil
offences; while Venus and Sun in 12, will cause jail for
political offences.
     Sun in the 12th house, redeiving evil.aspects, warns
one to,be careful during Sun's periods, as his treacher-
                           48

•ous friends may conspire and do harm to the person,
 just as Brutus assassinated Caesar. A few children are
likely to be tempted by the criminals with sweets.
They will be taken to an unfrequented place, where
 they will be robbed off their valuable possessions, when
they run Sun's sub-period.

      Sun in 12, receiving good aspects from benefics,
■shows that the bank position will deteriorate, but the
 amount withdrawn will be.well invested on gilt-edged
•securities, Government bonds, or gold, etc.

      Sun in the 12th house indicates that one may leave
"his permanent place of residence and stay in a foreign
place. It shows a thorough change in surroundings and
environments, and sometimes in the institution where
he serves. He may lose his ancestral property.
      Sun in the 12th house may cause trouble in the
left eye.
      Sun, in this house, indicates prosperity to one's
 younger brother (10th house to 3rd). Mother may pro-
 ceed on a long journey. Her father may be ill.
 Children may meet with accident. Their health may
 suffer, or they may have any other difficulty. Maternal
 uncle may get married, or he may have any legal dis-
 pute. Their servants also may have their wedding
 celebrated during Sun's period. When the person runs
■the period of Sun posited in the 12th house, his wife
 may suffer from any ailment, and she may also borrow
iimipney. Sometimes, partners in business will fall ill,
 ana they may-borrow during the Sun's period, hen
the native runs it.
     Father's mother may suffer from eye disease.
Father may dispose of any of his permanent posses-
sions. When,the native runs the period of the Sun, it
                             49

indicates beneficial results to his elder brother who
may get into service.
      Sun placed in the 12th house makes the native
 poor, a thief, adulterous among widows with un-
.scrupulous conduct and careless of reputation. As a
 recluse, he will keep off from his associates. Sun brings
 with it a danger of confiict with the authorities or an
 inability to fit in with the family conditions and, on
 account of the ensuing trouble, the person goes into
 voluntary or enforced exile, living his life as a stranger
.among strangers. If Sun is afflicted, such extreme con-
 ditions will prevail.
     Sun occupying the twelfth house in a chart favours
 one with service in the medical department, hospitals,
chemical "industry, laboratory, jail department or
research department. One will have the tendency to
learn occult sciences. He will have uncommon tastes
and inclinations.
        MOON:       UNSTEADY FORTUNE
                (Moon in the 2nd house)

      Second house denotes wealth or poverty, gain or
 loss, prosperity or adversity, movable goods, money
 lent, money used for speculation, law-suits, right eye,,
 fortune or misfortune, treasures, memory, power of
 observation, speech, vision, imagination, bank balance,
 family including all relatives and self-acquisition.
        Moon in the second house gives handsome coun-
   tenance and charming eyes. It makes one highly
  intelligent, and bestows wealth. It may cause break in
   one's education. He will have great respect in the
  Government.       The members of the family will be
  leading a happy and harmonious life. The person will
  be witty, humorous and clever in speech. He will use
  most agreeable and pleasing words. He will be very
  liberal by nature and wilLhave winning manners. The
  mind will be ingenious, active, full of imagination and
  romance.                                  N
        As moon is an unsteady planet, being plastic by
  nature, either waning or waxing, and also moving very
  fast, it causes fluctuation in one's financial position.
  One can have success in life either dealing in public
  commodities or in connection with liquids, or concerns
. where there is a quick and rapid turnover of business
  including dealings in the share market. All matters,
  public or commercial, will attract the person who is
  fit to hold public office.
       Moon, the fastest traveller, shows thatonecan have
..success through travel but the . fortunes are liable to
  many changes. Therefore the efforts will be directed
 to "a fluctuating business.
                            51

     Moon, owning a beneficial house and occupying
the second house, gives wealth whereby he will eat
good food. But if Moon owns evil houses and occupies
the second, he will lose money and eat sparingly. If the
sign is a movable one, either receiving money or
losing money will be for a short period. If it is in a
fixed sign, very slowly he gains or loses. Even in
taking fpod, he will be slow. If it is in a common
sign, the fluctuations will be alternately felt. These are
the indications given in general by the various authors.

      Actually, one is to take into consideration in
 which constellation (nakshathra or star) Moon was
 transiting at the time of birth. Note which house or
 houses the lord of the nakshathra governs.           For
 example, a person is born in Mithuna (Gemini)
 lagna. He has the Moon in the second house in
 Cancer (Karkata). Moon can be in Punarpoosam
 (Punarvasu) 4th quarter or pada or Poosam (Pushya)
 or Ayilyam (Ashlesha). If Moon were to be in Punar-
 vasu 4th pada, which is ruled by Jupiter (according to
 Udu Dasa or Vimsottari Dasa), the person can gain
 through wife 6r partner in business (as Jupitar is lord
 of 7), and also through his profession (as Jupiter is the
 owner of the 10th house also). But if Moon were to
be in Pushya which is owned by Saturn, the ruler of
 the 8th and 9th"houses, then Moon will be under the
sway of Saturn, and the person will be finding it diffi-
cult to collect debts. Sometimes, he may have to write
them off as bad debts. Any old member in ay pass away
in the family, and there will be unavoidable expenses.
There may be loss and trouble through insurance
or legacy. Disharmony and dispute in the family are
also threatened, as Saturn owns the ,8th house, and it
rules Pushya occupied by Moon. These results will be
very strongly felt during Moon's period and Saturn's
sub-period. Moon in Pushya is also under the sway
                            52

 of Saturn, the lord of 9th house, and it shows gain of
money through foreign merchants, shipping, export
and import, science, learning, publications, travel,
invention and banking. If Moon were to be in Aslesha
nakshatra which is ruled by Mercury (Budha) who
owns the lagna and the 4th house, Moon will give" the
following results, especially during Mercury's sub-
period. As Budha, lord of 1, shows that the native
will take much efforts to obtain money, he will have
benefit through' industrious activity. There can be no
loss nor any wants. As lord of 4, Budha shows that
the person will gain by dealing in lands, buildings,
vehicles and enjoy good yield from the estate. Mother
will have large gains which she will give to this "person.
                 A
     Thus one should observe in which nakshatra a
planet is situated and analyse properly.
      (1)    Note in which house or • bhava a planet is
             posited.
      (2)    Note in which nakshatra it is.
     . (3)     Find out the lord of the nakshatra and
             . which house or houses he owns.
      (4)    Read out the results as lord of those houses
             occupying the particular house tenanted by
             the planet in consideration.
       (5)   Modify the quality of the result by the
             nature of the planet ..which occupies the
             house and the planet ruling the star.

    Suppose Moon is in the second house to a person
born in Leo or Simha lagna.
       (1)    Moon is lord of 12. He occupies the 2nd
              house. That he will cause loss, is the
              general prediction.
                            53

       (2)   Moon may be in Uttaraphalguni (Uttiram)
             or Hastham or Chitra.
      (3)    Lord of Uttaraphalguni is Sun, lord of
             Hastham is Moon, and lord of Chitra is
             Mars (Sevvai or Mangal),
      (4)    Moon in Uttiram (i.e., in the constellation
             of lord of the lagna) indicates that he will
             make money by his own efforts and will
             have to meet such expenses as he may
             willingly approve.
             • If in Hastham, it denotes that, in spite
             of great care, the native will be losing
             money unexpectedly. He will feel irritated
             and dejected. Unnecessary, . uncommon,
             unpleasant and unavoidable expenses will
             have to be defrayed, and they will far" out-
             weigh his income.
               If Moon is in Chitra, it denotes that the
             person will invest on landed properties or
             spend on his conveyance (Mars is lord of 4
             and 9 to Leo, lagna of the native). He will
             acquire them. Also he will spend money
             on his education, long journey and on his
             parents. He will never feel sorry to spend
             money.

     Suppose Moon is in the second house to Mesha
and is exalted there. He may be in Karthikai or
Rohini or Mrigaseersha naksliathra ruled by Sun,
Moon and Mars respectively. So one will gain through
speculation, if Moon were.to be in Sun's star Karthika,
or through children or pleasurable pursuits. The native
gains through fixed deposit, permanent possessions,
vehicles, buildings or through mother, if Moon were to
be in her own star, Rohini, and Moon rules the 4th
                            54

house in the horoscope of a Mesha (Aries) lagna of
native. Moon in Mrigasecrsha denotes that the native
will take' all pains to make money, construct a house
of his own and also gain through legacy, insurance or
provident fund when Moon's sub-period runs. Because,
persons born in Karthikai and Rohini will enjoy Moon
dasa in the early stages of their life, while those born in
Mrigaseersha, ruled by Mars, can never have Moon
dasa. Hence, whatever results are indicated by the
Moon will be experienced in the bhukti and anthara of
Moon and the lord of the nakshatra in which Moon
was at the time of birth.

      Second house denotes movable goods and money
lent, If Moon occupies the nakshathra of the lords of
1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11, one can have the money returned
by the debtors. One can have gains through those
relatives indicated by the planet (in whose star the
Moon was posited at birth), and the houses it owns.
But "If Moon occupies the constellation of the lords of
4, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 12, there will be gain through the
relatives, and matters indicated by the houseonly, if the
aspect from those lords is unfavourable. If the aspect
is favourable (sextile or 60 degrees, trine or 120
degrees, etc.), there will be loss through them.. ■ There-
fore it is.necessary to note the star in which the planet
is, the aspect it receives and then delineate the results,

     No consultant will be benefited by simply transla-
ting the genera] principles expounded by our sages and
modern scholars. Nor does it help the astrologer.
It will only lend a hand to the non-believers to speak
disparagingly of the science of astrology. Hence prac-
tical astrology which will prove to be very correct, well
advanced and useful for modern conditions, will be
published by the Editor of this magazine under the title
" Krishnamurti Paddhathi" which is a system of
                            56

advanced stellar astrology combined with the Western
sytem of aspects.
      Moon in the second house means that it occupies
 the eighth house counted from the 7th house. It there-
 fore portrays that the partner in business or any one
.with whom the native has dealings will encounter diffi-
 culties and he will drag the native to a court of law;
 because the people indicated by the 7th house have to-
 undergo trials and face troubles.
      Moon receiving good aspects from the lord of the
.2nd house, gives good vision and the right eye will be
rperfect. But if the aspect is evil, there will be either-
 'defect or disease in the eye.
    Moon in the second house in good aspects from-
Mars makes -one outspoken ; from Mercury, quick,
speech ; from Jupiter, wise speech; from Venus, talk,
about sex, pleasure, etc.; from Saturn, it makes one:
speak less. Sun in good aspect makes one dignified.
     Moon, receiving good aspects from Jupiter, Mars
and Venus, indicates a big family,-whereas Saturn con-
trols the birth of children and.thus the family will be a
small one.
          MARS THE INDEPENDENT
           (Mars in Lagna or the Ascendant)

      Ascendant indicates one's health, longevity, acci-
dents or injuries, the mind, the form and the stature of
the person, success or failure in one's attempts, fortune
or misfortune, rank and dignity. It-is also the house
which shows the profit and long-standing friends of
younger brother (11th to 3),. reputation of mother
{10fh to 4), long voyage and higher studies of one's-
children (9th to 5), danger to servants, maternal uncle:
and pet animals (8th to 6), gains or losses to father in
speculation or speculative business (5th house to the
9th), short journeys and gain through publication, etc.,
to elder brother (3rd house to the 11th).
      Mars in the first house or Lagna, makes one ambi-
tious,, confident, enterprising, skilful and assertive. He
or she will be bold and courageous, and they will not
relish others' suggestions. They generally create a
great deal of their own fate by impulse and strong.
natural desire.      They will have good, practical,
executive ability. They love to enjoy liberty. They are •
reckless of danger. They scom defeat and will never
accept defeat. They may be somewhat amorous and
fiery; Depending upon the sign Mars occupies, their-
characteristics, features, etc., will get modified.
     Mars in Mesha (Aries), gives force, activity, self-
assurance, industry, enterprise, and mechanical ability.
The native will be very independent, and will act hastily,
on impulse. They will.have love for sport, adventure
and pleasure, and will intensely dislike limitations,.
bondage, etc. Undeterred by obstacles, obstructions,
and objections, they will push, their affairs, forward.
They will never take into consideration whether-
                           58

they have outside encouragement or support. They
will have enough of immunity and resistance, and yet
will be liable to fire accidents, surgical operations,
high fever, inflammation, thrombosis, cerebral hae-
morrhage, wounds and scalds. There will be a red
tnole or a scar on the head. They are easily offended,
and are quick to resent. In most cases, they are
themselves the direct cause of most of the misfortunes
from which they suffer. It is fortunate for any occu-
pation of the nature of Mars.
     Mars in Taurus in the Ascendant: This gives
much determination. It is difficult for them to change
the course of action already decided upon. They will
go steadily in their own way. They will have patience,
persistence and strength. The native will be obstinate
and angry when ptovoked. "He is very capable and
practical, and possesses strong will. He;is prone to
be extravagant and as a consequence may lose some
money. Mars in this position promises marriage and
also shows disharmony among the couple. The native
is likely to gain by legacy. Mars, in this position,
frequently causes ulcer in the throat and pimples on
the face. It produces a good manager capable of
carrying plans and ideas into practical materialisation.
Mars shows that they are not usually non-plussed or
thwarted by obstacles and the natives will gain their
desired end through sheer strength of internal force
and cofidence.
     Mars in sign Gemini (Mithuna) and in Lagna : The
native will be very clever and quick in grasping what
others mean. It will sharpen the insight and percep-
tion. It gives a quick and razor-sharp intellect. The
person will be frank, amiable and outspoken. He will
be much inclined to prosecute studies. He will prove
a good writer, orator or a lecturer. He will be fond of
making short tours. He will take up for study science.
                            59

 chemistry, law, banking or company administration.
  He possesses a mechanical, inventive and ingenious
  mind. He is quick in making deductions, and arriving
  at conclusions. If Mars is afflicted, then he will be
 fault-6nding, critical and forceful in speech. He will
  have troubles through brothers, cousins and neigh-
  bours. He will get into difficulties by believing friends
  and standing surety for them. His mind will be
 icstless. He cannot concentrate. He is likely to suffer
  from pains in the throat, lungs, etc. He may sustain
 injury in the hands, arms, shoulders, collar bone, or he
 may have to undergo operation due to disease in the right
  ear. It is likely that his health needs, and the mind
  bend to more than one union." There may be legal
  attachments, especially when Saturn and Venus aspect
 Mars. The natives may scatter their energies by attend-
 ing to too many things. Even though they are quick-
 witted, prompt in thought, apt in words and decisive in
■speech, they will gain materially only by concentrating
 on one thing at a time. People collapsing or dying
 during air travel, have often been found to have Mars
 in the Ascendant in Gemini, afflicted by Saturn and
 Uranus. If Jupiter lends its assistance by good aspect,
 they escape by providential help.

      Mars in Cancer (K ark at a) in Ascendant: This
position favours an independent spirit. One will be
inclined to rebel against rules and regulations; He
 will revolt against his .superiors, and will not allow
the authorities to exercise their power. His subordi-
nates also will follow a similar policy and disobey
 him.    There may be trouble through elders, when
Mars period operates; yet it is favourable for inheriting
 ancestral property. He may gain landed property.
"Some may get houses. A few may deal in occupations
•connected with land, agriculture, township'schemes,
•building society, fertiliser industry, pump sets or Navy,
                          60

shipyard, shipping, etc. It is only the sudden out-
bursts of the native and his irritable tendency which,
bring him into enmity with friends, thereby reducing:
the benefits likely to accrue through them.
      Mars gives originality. It shows fitness for
medicine and surgery. The native can take up business
journeys and voyages. He is somewhat changeable,
and this causes disagreement with partner in business
who will be discontented. There will be changes of
residence for those who do not own houses, as they
cannot see eye to eye with the owner. If Mars is
afllicted, there will be loss of property due to fire,,
storms, earthquakes, theft, etc., during the mutual
period of Mars and that -planet which forcris evil
aspect with Mars (especially Saturn, as lord of 8 and
Uranus forming adverse aspect will cause much loss).
Moon forming bad aspects will bring in loss due to.
heavy rains, floods and breaches. Health will fail
due to indispositiob, in thfi stomach and in theiungs.
                                     (To be continued},
              NO MORE DOUBTS
                 KING OR KUBERA
                    Balasundaram
    Question : Can you say from a horoscope whether
one is bom to a King or to an ordinary person or to
a beggar ?
      Answer: The answer is No. It will not be possible
for an astrologer to say whether the horoscope is that
 of a person belonging to the Royalty, or not. But it
■can be surely foretold whether he would become great
 and even rule the land or he may lose whatever he
 possesses and be reduced to' penury.
    Let me place before the readers, a few instances:
        (i) On page 16, Thomas Tegg. & Son, 73,
Cheapside, published in • 1837 in Raphael Manual of
 Astrology, the following occurs ccIn the newspapers of
February 1820,The death of a Mr. Samuel Hemmings
was noticed. It was said that he had been an
iron-monger and was prosperous i n his trade. ^ It was
■also stated that he was-bom on the 4th June, 1738, at
 the same moment as His Late Majesty, King George
 the Third, in the same parish of St.- Martin's-in-the-
 fields: that he went into business for himself in
October 1760, when His Late Majesty came to the
  throne: that he married on 8-9-1761, the . same day
 as the King. All events of his life resembled those
 which happened to the late King. He at last died on
 Saturday 29-1-1820 on the same day and nearly the
 same hour as His Late Majesty.
      (ii) King Edward VII was born on 9-11-1841
when a child was born at Walthamstow and the
Charts were identical.  They noticed multifarious
                            62

incidents of parallel fortune and          both died    on
6—5—1910.
       (iii) William II and an artisan were born at the
same time in the same locality. Horoscopes were
identical. The results enjoyed were very similar.
Both passed away at the same hour on the same day.
         (iv) Mrs. E. Oakes-Smith published in 1852 that
a little chimney-sweeper came to the world at the same
time on the same day when Prince of Wales (later
George IV) was born. The parents gave the boy, the
same name £ Prince George No doubt, the prince bad
all comforts of royalty while the poor chimney-sweeper
could get no better comfort than being rolled merely in
sooty blanket. Regarding characteristics also, virtues,
vices, follies, perjuries, etc., were found equally in both
and the poor boy was not a jot behind the prince. Both
met with misfortune and finally passed away at the
same time.
       (v) Two persons were born at the same time
and both got married to two career girls who were
earning. Both bad no children. They were very fond
of domestic pet-cats and dogs. The natives were
lecturers following identical curves in life with equal
interest in politics, philosophy and religion. Minor
events also were strikingly similar in their lives. For
example, both suffered from tooth-ache at the same
time and had the tooth removed in the same hospital
on the same day. They met their ends also on the
same day.
        (vi) Two men born in the same village had
similar temperaments, character, behaviour, experien-
ces, etc. Both lost a child each in the same;month and
they had the same number qf children. Thus instances
can be given in large numbers, illustrating a very
important point in Natal astrology. To have two
                            63

people born in the same locality at the same moment is
very rare, when alone the horoscopes will be identical
with their lives running strangely parallel to each
other.
      A horoscope can show the inborn tendencies and
the running dasas, bhukthies and progression; transit of
the planets will indicate the time at which opportuni-
 ties will present themselves' for the fruition of those-
tendencies. Therefore the horoscopes can show the
influences at work, whether one is born to a peer or to
a peasant. Arithmetically for instance, the peasant
can enjoy 20% increase in his income and thereby his
income may go up from Rs. 400/- a month, to 480/- a
month. To another drawing Rs. 2,000/- the same
increase of 20% will mean much; for he will draw
2,400/-. Therefore the fortune enjoyed would vastly
depend on the situation of the native at birth.
     The following illustration will explain the point:—
     A plane from the hills and one from the plains
take off. Both have gone up by, say 6,000 feet. If
the plane in the hills took its flight from an altitude of
7,000 feet and the plane from the plains at 0 foot.
Mean sea level, then the former will be flying at 13,000
feet and the latter at 6,000 feet. The latter cannot even,
reach the altitude from which the former started..
What is important, therefore, is the position at birth,,
the situational advantages and environmental aids to
the social economic lead which a native enjoys that
should be taken into consideration when prediction on.
identical charts is given.
     Always the born ruler is a ruler, even if his subjects
happen to be a group of thieves or fishermen or coolies.
Astrology can only say if one will get the opportunity
and power to govern others or whether one will be
living unnoticed without making a mark in his life
                            64

time. Every one has, no doubt, the ambition to be
active, to come up and to lead because "a live dog is
better than a dead Hon."
      The conclusion is, therefore, reached that an astro-
 loger should not pronounce his opinion until he is fami-
liar with his consultant's station in life, his social and
^economic condition when alone he may properly
evaluate the nature of the results. Can a physician
 diagnose correctly until he is familiar with the history
 of the case. Will not the history of the patient help
 him to decide correctly ? In the same manner, an
 astrologer has to get all particulars from the client and
 then scientifically deal with it. Only then failures can
"be eliminated.
      If one claims that he can say from a given chart
 that one is born in a Royal family or in a loyal
 servant's family, it should be either a guess or he
•could have heard the client's history already through
-other sources or it maybe due to the control of evil
 devils and spirits like Yakshini, etc. Such people are
-offered a room in a maternity hospital and if people
 ask them about the sex of the child to the expectant
mothers, they can say correctly when they were
admitted, what the names of the mothers are, their
husbands, their profession, etc., through Yakshini,
thought reading, etc., But they will fail miserably in
prediciting the future," i.e., the time of birth of the
-child, its sex, etc.
      If therefore correct predictions are expected about
■a native's future, it would be necessary for him to
provide the Astrologer with complete details of himself
and his environments.
               NO MORE DOUBTS

       (L) What is the result of the planet which is
 ^eclipsed ?
       Eclipse means the interception of the light of a
  heavenly body by intervention of another body between
 h't and the spectator. It deprives the light of the body
  and the spectator on the earth is denied its brilliance
■ and splendour.
      From Sun, Mercury is 36 million miles away,
 Venus 67 million miles and the Earth 93 million miles.
  Moongoes round and round the earth and it is 2,40,000
 miles from the Earth. Hence Moon, Mercury and
 Venus can come between the Earth and the Sun. Mars,
 Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus' and Neptune are 142 mil.
 miles, 483 mil. miles, 886 mil. miles, 1,782 mil. miles,
-and 2,791 mil. miles respectively from the Sun. There-
 fore, Sun can come between the Earth and these
 planets, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
 On those occasions when Mercury, and Venus go far
-away from the Earth, the Sun can come between these
two planets and the Earth. Sun can never pass between
;the Earth and the Moon.
      Two planets are said to be in close conjunction
 when they occupy some points of the Zodiac very near
 each other. Each planet exerts its influence and
 spreads its light upto a certain distance on both its
•sides, and it is called its orb. The Sun is the biggest
 Of all the planets and it has an orb of 17°, Moon 12°,
 and the other planets 7°.
     Generally, conjunction of two. benefic planets
 produces good results, and bad results follow if two
 malefics conjoin. If a benefic and a malefic are in
•conjunction, much of the favourable results of the
     A—5
                            66

benefic will be lost and likewise much of the undesi-
rable results of the evil planet will get mitigated.
     Planets in close conjunction are otherwise called1
rapt conjunction with the Siin, excepting Rahu and
Kethu who are said to be in combustion or Vikala or
Asthangatha or eclipsed. It is said that they are then
utterly powerless. Planets in conjunction with the
Moon arc said to be in Samagamam indicating good
strength.
     Planets within 5° of the Sun will be really combust..
If they are within 10°, the combustion is ordinary^
If a planet is beyond 15°, there is no combustion.
    Westerner^ give importance only to the Solar and"
Lunar eclipses. They do not attach anything to the
conjunction of Sun with other planets.
     Hindus pay much attention to the eclipse of the
planets while they predict results of those planets in
their dasas and bhukthies, while giving transit results
how a planet getting eclipsed will behave and also^
while selecting an auspicious time to celebrate rparriage,,
or entry into a new house of for learning Vedas etc.
     Hindus are of opinion that the eclipsed planet,,
whether a benefic or a malefic, loses its strength espe-
cially to do good to the native.
     In Jataka Thatvam, Mahadeva says that the-
planet that is eclipsed will cause trouble and produce
untoward results. In ' SanketanidhiRamadayulu has.
said that if Mars and Venus are eclipsed and. occupy
the 5th house, the person concerned becomes one-eyed
and if the lord of the rising dwadasamsa is eclipsed,,
the person's property is insecure ; he also says that the
lord of the rising Trimsamsa when eclipsed causes,
 misunderstanding among the relatives.
                            67

      Kalidas is of the opinion that if the lord of a
 Bhava is eclipsed by the Sun's rays, the Bhava is
 completely destroyed even if the Bhava is occupied by
 benefics. In his work ' Uttara kalamritham he adds
 that Venus and Saturn do not lose strength even when
 eclipsed.
      Prithuyasas, Son of Varahamihira, deals a little
 elaborately in his work Horasara, with the results of
the eclipsed planets. Even though the planets may be
 strong by occupying a position in the Zodiac, yet they
become weak if they are eclipsed by the Sun and hence
they do not produce the good effects which are declared
to fructify in their dasa periods, yogas and their
bhavas. However strong a planet may be, still it will
not produce any good effect if it is eclipsed, and dur-
ing its dasa, bad effects alone will accrue to the person.
It will apply to the results of the Bhava it owns and
also occupies. He also mentions that planets, excepting
Venus and Saturn, lose half of their strength when
eclipsed. If the Moon becomes eclipsed, the native
will have a fall from his position, will be mentally
afflicted, and will suffer from jaundice and similar
diseases. Further, there will be risk from water.
    Mars, when eclipsed, will give trouble and many
kinds of worries, and the native's mind will be in a
destructive mood.
      Mercury when eclipsed, brings on loss in lands and
perpetual mental affliction. He will suffer from
jaundice, sickness, catarrh, etc. He will also incur
loss.
^ Eclipsed Jupiter gives misery       and happiness in
equal proportion.
    Saturn in eclipsed state shows that the person's
income and expenditure will balance' each other. He
                            68

will not feel happy. He will have a frail body. But his
fame will spread very wide. He will be tormented by
various mental cares.
     Prithuyasas also mentions that one's education
will be spoiled in the. period of a planet occupying the
navatnsa sign owned by the eclipsed one.
      -When .longevity is calculated, the Hindu sages
 declare that one born during the period of eclipse is
 very short-lived. If the lords of the Lagna, navamsa
 lagna and Moon rasi are all eclipsed, the person can-
'riot live long.
       While the strength of the eclipsed planet is dis-
 cussed, Varahamihira says in Brihat: Jataka. that pianets,
 when eclipsed, contribute only one half of what
 longevity they can give in the same position in the
 Zodiac, if they are not eclipsed. But Mantreswara in
 Phaladeepika writes that the strength of an eclipsed
 planet is nil and a person will meet with his end in its
-dasa within a short time after it starts. Destruction to
 the members of the family and wealth is threatened.
 He will have litigation and may suffer humiliation.
 He says that the eclipsed planet ^ruling the 7th house
 shows loss of wife; lord of 5 denotes danger to children
 and lord of Lagna will cause death to the native. If the
 planet is not eclipsed, good" effect of the bhava will be
 enjoyed. All will welcome the lord of 6 to be eclipsed
 as it is strong to destroy the enemies.
       Let us consider the results of the planets when
  they are eclipsed and when they own different houses in
 one's chart.
       Lord of the Lagna getting' eclipsed shows that the
  native will be imprisoned; he will lead the life in
:cognito; will suffer from fear, disease and anxiety ; will
  participate in funeral rites ; incur loss and may lose
 position too will be unfortunate ; etc.
                            70

      Lord of 2: behaves stupidly in a public assembly ;
 will be untrustworthy ; will receive annoying letters ;
 write bad ones; suffer from eye troubles; will be foul-
 tongued; spend heavily ; incur Royal displeasure.
      Lord of 3: demise of brother; evil advice; trouble
 through secret mechanisation of internal enemies;
 humiliation; discomfiture and loss of pride thereby.
      Lord of 4 : Distress to mother; sickness to dear
 friends; danger to lands; trouble due to the loss of
 cattle; danger from .water and conveyance.
     Lord of 5 : Loss of a child; aberration of the
mind; deception ; wearisome wandering; trouble in the
stomach, displeasure of the Government and bodily
weakness.
     Lord of 6 : Will have troubles through thieves ;
will suffer reverse, defeat; will commit wicked acts;
will do servile duties; will be despised, scandalised and
injured.
     Lord of 7 : Distress to son-in-law ; separation
from beloved; untoward results due to the troubles
from the opposite sex; intrigues with wicked women;
diseases in the private parts; ever wandering ;
     Lord of 8: Excessive, sorrow; want of sense;
carnal appetite, jealousy ; unconsciousness; poverty;
fruitless rambling; sickness; humiliation and death.
    Lord of 9 : Will incur the wrath of the deity or
Guru of preceptor; suffer something untoward; trouble.
to wife and children; will do wicked acts; elder's
demise; will suffer from poverty.
      Lord of 10 : Fruitless attempts; loss of honours-
 will become wicked; leave his permanent place;
-inauspicious happenings; will lead bad life; suffer
troubles.
                             71

      Lord of 11: Bad news ; trouble to elder brother;
sickness to children; will suffer misery ; deception and
•ear disease.
     Lord of 12 : Various diseases ; dishonour ; dis-
■appearence of wealth; detention ; bondage.
    These results will be experienced by a person when
he runs the dasa or bhukthi of the lords mentioned
above.
     Mantraeswara gives hopes by saying that a
planet, even when eclipsed, if it occupies an auspicious
sign and navamsa, will, in its period, offer mixed results
and finally in the latter half of its dasa, agreeable and
beneficial results.
     Transit results of eclipsed planets:     Planets in
their transit through favourable houses (houses wherein
they have to give good effects) become void of effect
if they happen to be eclipsed.; But if the houses transi-
ted by them be unfavourable, then they will give bad
effects in an aggravated form.
    Election of anspicious time for any nndertaking :
Avoid the constellations in which the recent eclipses
have appeared within six months before and after the
month when one desires to do any auspicious work..
      It is also declared that it is not advisable to celeb-
rate Upanayanam and marriage or construct and enter
into new premises when Jupiter and Venus arc eclipsed.
It is called ' Guru Sukra Moodam \
    People belonging to Sama Veda should not initiate
mantra and do Upanayana when Mars is eclipsed. Rig
Veda people should avoid these when Jupiter is eclipsed.
If Venus is eclipsed, Yajur Veda people should not
have Upanayanam.
Pll^Westcrners are of opinion that the conjunction,of
kSuh aiid Moon is-highly conducive to promote material-
Kyelfare and to have bright careers. Sun and' Mars in.
telose conjunction give force of character and power of"
 enHiirance. Great self-control is to be exercised. There-
 ^ill be'struggle between one's will and desires 'during:
 oriels lifer._                 ' -r.:
  ^Sun and .Mercury-in. .close conjunction\|ive*much^t;




  .^Conjunction of Saturn and Sun gives indomitable-
  Hl^co^r^e arid^strength^of^iritellect.:- It vdoes^-not.
. ^mQte'materiaI';happiriws. ' Ill-health and" obstacles;- -1'
3^y.joQe/s\dVaricemeritriajife." Biitit brings- lot"of5
^weV,'" authority and fesponsi^ilityiif Saturn' irecdyes-. "
goo'd aspects from benefics.                        -      ' ;
                                         r
                                  ^             4'.^-      - -
[3
--^rrThus'^WestcrneiThavc taken each planet, observed'
the results and have recorded them. Those who are.
^interested to do research can take the horoscope" of^i
 [those in whom a few planets are eclipsed and observe^
(the various results enjoyed by them during the dasa ofr?
'ihe^eclipsed Planets."" "                       ^
 u;^iModern Astrological Research- Institute", ..Madras^
;yerified[yaridus'bcharts and found;but:,that jhefeclip^Jj
(plan^s^yeiboth 'gob'd^ndbadtfesults^inhtheirCda^
i depgndi ngttappnHhe Bhuktihathas;; e. gT;.?a;0f soujlSo^m
lih^phThurllagna'j having |M#cury[reclip^ed;(|:had^hi^
^mgeia^d^pV^Vfltyjn Jtis'pjrpfes^on'duri^M&curjn
^aM^JgySyVhe;mavIdesife"ltoHave''a'"m6re!beautil\]iaffaM
ebeh'er-aScomplish'ed^wif&^and^ialsysa^hieber/stat'uftnM
;lif^(So?a!sbj^ercu^ieclipsed IfinaVii n^i is Ida sSjbna&«

^gaff|niSr^'gfeJ?a5a^^rd!5f^l6;^e^romofa^rt^|Pft
-;pe]^o&^orp'[injyri8cidka:liagnat^ith^665^i^riSniKt
^had;Venus;'eclipsed'at.th^time'dff;.'hipbiFth^H^h^
^hislwVddingnnyerius dasa' ahd^e ehjo'yed'his^arfied
      ' f rr -lt       u ' t.  -• _• ♦^xTrrJ-'^V&'dZs-ftSfi

^wheh(eclip'se<Pdoes hot■beepme a.m"aleh.c and i'deny^
Result's it haVto'bffer^Bnt-it ddes^bttoraUess-bicWh^
 t             ' .-'.r
       ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
                    (FOUNDED: 1-^1963)
                  (Astbonomy Madu Easy)


      By jybthisha Prayeena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


Vol. i:              DECEMBER 1963                     No. 9.


                           CONTENTS
                                                       Page No.
 1.    Ay ana Chalana                                       3
                       >
 2.    No more doubts:
      ^ Vakya and Drik: Th.e two systems                  10
        'Which Pahchanga to use ?                         14
        -^a Bhukthi'.                                     19
       Moles and their meaning                            25
 4.    Mars in each star                                  27
 5.    Mars in each sign                                 31
6. Cancer .(Katakam)                                     35
7.'- Are you' running sun period ? Know what to
       do and what to avoid                              49
 8.    Position and Transit of Planets in December,
         1963                                            70
.9. ^Monthly forecast for December, 1963 (English)       71.
10. Tlonthly forecast for December, 1963 (TajQi!)...     92
                 AYANA GHALANA
                   (Precession of Equinoxes)

                             By
                L. Narayana Rao, m.a.

     What is "Precession of the Equinoxes"? The
expression itself is suggestive of the answer. It is, in
other-words, a phenomenon which has been discovered
by observations spread over long intervals of tiriie. It
is the phenomenon ' of the slow moving back of the
."Equinoxes". What, then,- is meant by the word
"Equinoxes"? It means "Equal day and night".
In Sanskrit terminology, it is known as ' Yishuvat' and
it has been aptly described an .'Samaratrin divekale
vishuvat yishvancha yat* (That day, when the diurnal
and nocturnal arcs'are of equal length, is called the
equinoctial day). .

     - Where is this Equinox placed in the heavenly vault
 over our heads? . Here is a simple method to find it
  out. Suppose you stand facing the Pole Star on a clear
 cloudless night—you cannot fail seeing the Pole Star—
 which is situated at a height above the horizon equal to
 the North Latitude of ypur place. - Imagine a circle
 passing through the Zenith (overhead), the North. Pole
 Star and your position (which-is the centre of the
 celestial sphere). This great circle is called the Meri-
 dian of your place, which divides the celestial sphere
 into two halves, the oriental and the occidental. Next,
irom your Zenith point mark off towards the South, on
 the-Meridian, an arc equal to the latitude of the place
( = altitude of the pole star.) Draw a gteat circle passing .
through the marked position and perpendicular to the
                                4

             This great circle will be the Celestial Equator.
                    ♦*          Please see the diagram on
                                side
                                       N ■— North Pole
                                       Z = Zenith point
                                       O = Observer


                           q,     | HNZPR is the Meri-
                      y       dian. EPWQis the-Equator
                              cutting the horizon at
                         .  , points E and W, being ,
   respectively the. East and West points. The circle
   passing through ZWSE is called the Prime Vertical.
       Now consider the figure given here. N is the Pole
   of the Equator (PQ). Consider another great, circle




-^-inclined to .this at an angle equal to 230-27^' (which is
  :
    called the mean value of the obliquity of the ecliptic).
/ This is the extent to which the Sun by his apparent posi-
.-^tion goes north of the Equator for one half the year and
' to the south during the remaining half. Its intersecting
                               5

 points with the Equator are called Vernal Equinox (the
 first point of Aries) and its opposite Autumnal Equinox
 (the first point of Libra). The extreme North and South
 points are called the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.-
     . If an observer on the Equator observes the Sun's
 apparent motion daily, he will find that about the time
 the Sun travels"900 from Aries, he reaches the northern-
 most point and thereafter begins to decrease in the
 northern direction. Observations, spread over long
 intervals, show that the days'of the Sun attaining the
 northernmost distance, southernmost distance, crossing
 the equindctical points, Aries (Mesha), and Libra
 (Thula) come , off earlier than they used to do in the
 past.' This phenomena is called AYANA CHALANA
 or PRECESSION OF THE EQUINOXES.
       How is this motion caused ? The Earth is not a
  sphere but spheroidal in shape; i.e., it is bulging out at
  the middle and compressed at the ends. The combined
  pull of the. Sun and the. Moon, "due to the difference in
  distances and weights, causes the line of equinoxes to
  move in an anti-clockwise direction equal to about 54''
  per year (called the luni-solar precession).         The
  planets also have a similar effect, though very small, in
  an opposite direction to the luni-solar precession, equal
  to about 3.75" per year; -The net effect is called the
  over-all precession, which works out to about 50.25" per
"year. Further research has shown that this rate also is
 .variable year to yeaj and the average value can be
 taken as 50.23". There is no unanimity of opinion in
 this regard. The famous Surya Siddhanta, the first and
 original work on Hindu Astronomy, takes the rate
 as 54" per. year, while a later and more recent work,
 GrahaLdghava,-has 1' per year. The line of equinoxes .
  thus describes a complete circle in about 25^800 years
 and the pole of the ecliptic describes a circle in the.
.same time about the.pole of the Equator.
       The effect of precession: The Ecliptic has been
  divided notionally into 12 signs : Aries (Mesha), Vris-
  haba.(Taurus), and so on. Due to Precession, the actual
 ini tial point of the Zodiac recedes and, after a period of
rrabout 2,150 years, comes to the previous sign or'constel-
 tetion, thereby causing the Longitudes, Declination,
 Right Ascension, etc., to vary. This will be a continuous
.'motion from Aries to Pisces, Pisces to Aquarius, etc.,
 and finally again to Aries in an anti-clockwise direction
 in about 25,800 years. According to one of the Hindu
"theories, the change due to precession is libratory in
..character; in other words, precession will be
         : 0° Aries to   27° Aries
          27° .Aries to~ 0° Aries"
           0° Aries to ■ 3° Pisces1
           3° Pisces td 0° Aries.
We .are still in the period 0° Aries to. S*- Pisces and as
such, we need not bother overselves at present whether
the'libratory theory has any truth behind it.
       Practical use of Precession :• Coining, to the point
  of practical "utility of the vexed question of Ayanamsa,
 we-have to make the following remarks. The position.
 of the .various heavenly, bodies is given in co-ordinates
 referred to the moving zodiac and observations aIso\are
.made accordingly. The almanacs-of' the present day
 are based on modern up-to-date methods Of calculation
 and give the longitudes etc., referred to the moving"
 zodiac, while the science of,Astrology (which interprets
 the effects'of inter-stellar and planetary dispositions) is
hased .on the fixed zodiac as if there wereho precession.
 Thuvif by any means, the .first point-of Aries can be
rmarked .'on the heavens, one can /readily isolate the
difference -and furnish, to all students of Astrology, the
 correct amount of precession," whereby one can arrive
                            7

at the Nirayana (Ex-precession) positions readily. There
are still some who believe that the rules and principles
of Astrology are applicable at thd same time, whether
of the fixed or moving zodiac; Hindu Astrologers agree
to differ from this view and they can faever risk their
predictions unless the positions are first converted to
the fixed zodiac, i.e.,. the Nirayana zodiac.

     Determination of rate and amount of precession:
From the foregoing, it will be amply clear that it has
bocome.all the more important to find out. the date of
zero Ayanamsa and the correct.annual rate of preces-
sion which will give us the. amount of precession. This
has become one of the bnrning topics of the day,- and
there is no agreed solution among,tbe astrologers as to -
the rate of, or the am punt of, precession. Speculative
and favourite values' of Ayanamsa' are adopted and
everyone claims his yalhe as the only correct one.

    Methods adopted:
       (i) By verifying certain timed events according
to the dasas (planetary periods) obtained by both Nira-
yan^ and Say ana systems and then isolating the
Ayanamsa.
      (ii) There are certain .works based on what is
called the ' Nadi system ' which givea'out the balance
of the initial planetary dasa. From this, by a reverse
process, the Moon's true longitude can be found out.
The difference between this -and the lunar position as
given in Sayana Ephemeris is claimed to be the true
value of Ayanamsa. Theoretically, this appears^ to be
sound, but the lunar calculations of the Western and
Hindu methods differ to a very great extent. The
Western'method employs various corrections, such as
Evection, Variation, Equation of Centre, Reduction,
etc., . whpreas the Hindu system ■ employs chiefly the
                            8

.Equation of Centre. Even then, the value of the Equa-
 tion of Centre is not identical in both the systems.
        Solution to the problem : We are thus drawn to
  the necessity of evolving some independent method to
  find out die correct value of Ayanamsa. This can be
  achieved by comparing the Sayana position of the Sun
: given in the Epfaemeris with its Nirayana position, if
  readily available. The calculations based on Surya
  Siddhanta are Nirayana, and the epoch of the work is .
"old and remote when the Ayanamsa was zero; for,
  the cycle of4 Ayanamsa according to this, system -
  is 24,000 years which is a .factor of the length of
  a Mahayuga, the unit adopted thereon, for which the
  lumber of revolutions of the Sun, Moon and the planets
  have been worked out and made'available to us readily.
  There is no-Such remote epoch forthe modern methods; .
  nor is any record available of the position of the Sun, .
  etc., referred to the fixed zodiac.
      By an inspection of the daily true longitude of the
 Sun at about the.time when he has the maximum
 diurnal velocity, its mean and true .positions are the '.
 same, as the equation of centre is zero. This"will occur
 Somewhere about third January or so. Arrive at the
 exact moment when it is iexactly identical with. the
 perihelion position. Then, find out-the mean-Sun's .
position as per Surya Siddhanta at that moment. The
difference bet ween the two values of the mean Sun will
give the Ayanamsa .with the modification that the Sun's
Mandochha (Aphelion position), as given in the Siirya
Siddhanta, is short of the modern value by 1° 40' 8*
{for 1963). If we add this difference to the value pre-
yirinsly found, we get the present value of Ayanamsa
almost.
.,    For 1963, April, the value commonly accepted is
23". 19.' ^"(modern methods) and 21° 57' 36".according'
                             9

to the Surya Siddhanta. The, difference is 1° 21' 39" as.
against 1° 40' 8* mentioned in the last para. The diffe-
rence is 18' 29". This is accounted for as due to the
Meridian difference of the Sun's' mean position for the
two places of observation. By this 13' 34".is accounted
for and we "are left with a small difference-of 4' 55".
This is the accumulated difference in the mean position
of Sun-caused by the difference in the lengths of the
sidereal years in both Ihe systems. Considering the
distance of the Surya Siddhanta epoch from our days,
the difference of 4' 55" is reasonable, if not negligible.
Perhaps.I cannot find any other simpler method of
finding out the Ayanamsa.
                NO MORE DOUBTS

     VARY A AND DRIK:         THE TWO SYSTEMS

                             by
                L. Narayana Rao, m.a.

       Two friends met on a festive occasion. One of
  them asked the other, "When was Janma Ashtami?"
  The other replied, "I celebrated it on the last Wednes-
  day", to which the former ejaculated, "It should hhve
 been performed the next iday (Thursday), according to
  Vakya Panchanga. Are you, then, following the Drik
 Ganith'a Panchanga?" The latter replied, " Yes, you
 are right. We are following the Drik Ganitba Pan-
 changa for a long time as they say it is the correct one
 and is worked out according to modern methods."
 Again the* first interjected, "Don't you know that,
 though the Drik Ganitha Panchanga, may be scientific
 and worked out on data arrived at by recent discoveries,
 there is a common belief that it cannot be accepted for
 religious observances, sraddhas, etc.-, among the more
■orthodox and religious-minded and that those arrived
 at according to Vakya Panchanga are to be followed
 if their fasts and festivities are to acquire the necessary
 merit or punya?         The second-reiterated, "What are
 you talking? Are "there two sets of heavenly bodies,
 one answering to the followers of Vakya calculations,
 and the other to those of Drik system? Such a thing
 is impossible. I think the makers of Vakya Panchanga
 due to their ignorance or d is-inclination - to learn the-
present methods of calculation are simply claiming
'superiority on antiquity and following. - As educated .
persons in quest of real knowledge, why should not we
;go to an expert, conversant with both' the systems and
                            11

ask him to explain to us the relative methods adopted by
the calculations of the indigenous system vis-a-vis the
modern one? And we cannot find a person better than.
Shri-X who will be able to solve this intricate question. "
They accordingly went to Shri X and asked him the
following questions: .

       (1)   What ir.Vakya Panchanga and how are the
             calculations made ?

       (2)   What is Drik Panchanga and how are the
             calculations made? .
       (3)   Is there any difference between them and is
             the difference material ?

     Shri. X received them with great enthusiasm and
pleasure and answered them in the following manner. He
felt be was equal to the task and began answering the
questions seriatim :
       (1) According to the Hindu astronomical litera-
 ture, the Surya Siddhanta is the most ancient one. It
 is stated as a book of revelation by Sun God to Maya,
an asura, probably the father-in-law of Ravana, who
 made a . long and severe penance for learning' this
 wonderful branch of knowledge. This, knowledge
has been handed down even to this day by Guru siskya'
parampara. It is beyond the scope of the present
 discussion to1 deal with the contents or the methodology
adopted -by it. The unit of time measure is the
Mahayuga, and the position of the planets with their
periodicity, elements of classification at the commence-
ment of the Mahayuga .with rules for their conversion
to geocentric positions are all given. The calculation
of the Panchanga according to this method for an
expert will entail six to eight months of time ahead of
the year for which the Panchanga is intended. Later,
                           12

Aryabhatta appeared on the scene in Pataliputra (the
present Patna) and he rectified some short-comings,
may be, some, changes that had crept in the planetary
motions and wrote his work called the Aryabhattee-
yam. Even then, the calculations were lengthy. To avoid
this, certain later astronomers like Varuruchi invented
the Vakyas whereby ready-made, calculated - longitudes
for.small cycles and great cycles, are ^worked out which
gave almost "accurate results. With the help of these
Vakyas, the planetary positions including Moon can'
be calculated with great facility and reasonable
accuracy.

     (2) The word 'Drik' has its base 'Drish' '
meaning 'to see'. In other words, it means that which
can be seen as true to observation. • As such, Drik
Panchanga is that which is based on calculation, and
verified by actual observation. You should know that,,
for every calculation, there would be some data for
which the elements of the planets are available. There
are astronomical' methods for locating a planet or a
heavenly body, and by observing them at certain favour-
able occasions, separated by long intervals of time, „
these are determined. These are again used for working
out the future positions. The actual position will be
found to differ from the Calculated positions which can
be accounted as due to various perturbing causes and
empirical corrections are evolved. Among the Hindu
Panchanga makers, according to the Drik .system, the
foremost were Raghunathacharya of• Nungambakkam
(Madras), arid VenkateshaBabuji Kctkar of Maharashtra
to introduce the Drik system of calculation" in India.
The latter has written various astronomical treatises
based-on the work of occidental writers and adap-
ting them to the Hindu method of working. But the
more recent Panchanga-makers have presumably given
up original methods of calculation and have taken the
                           13

positions given in the nautical almanacs, etc., which
are based on the moving zodiac, subtracted some
fictitious value of Ayanamsa and published their own
Drik Panchangas. It is. needless for me to say in this
connection that the modern calculations are very
elaborate and tedious too. It is also difficult to
calculate them with the result that even the occidental
people seek the co-operation of ;other countries to
-calculate the positions of the different planets and
-coordinate- their work.

       (3) There is difference between the calculations,
 old and new; for, the elements of the planets and the
 data employed in the old methods have not been sub-'
 jected to any change; while, in the new method, these
 are rectified from, time to. time. While converting the
 mean position of the planet (madhyagraha) to the true
 position (sputagraha), the old methods employed only
 a small number of inequalities (samskaras), while, in
 the new makes, several inequalities appear andtheseare
 ever increasing. It may surprise readers to know that,
-in the 'Drik system, in the earlier stages, there were
 only 11 inequalities known, but " now as many as 400
 inequalities'are applied to Moon. Some disappear,
 re-appear or new ones erecp in. ,The result .is that to
 calculate far ihead the planetary positions is a matter
 of speculation. In respect of the Moon, the maximum
 dijj iience between the old and new methods may work
 out to between 1 ghatika of time in i hit hi and
 nakshdtra which . are two important angas of the
 almanac. So also, the position of Mars and Mercury
 give vast disparity in the new system from those
 obtained according to the old methods.
                               14

           WHICH PANCHANGA TO USE ?
                   ~ Whom tt> follow ?

                            By.
                   Jyothisha Pravccna
                Sw- K. S. Krishnamurti
           (Visitine Professor of Astrology, Bharatiya
                      - Vidhya Bhavan)

       Ancient-Hindus were the earliest to have a sound
 knowledge in Mathematics, Astronomy and Astrology.
 They received much encouragement and enjoyed the
 good support of the religious-minded Hindu, rulers.
 Therefore it was possible for them to develop these
 sciences. Those God-fearing and religious-minded
 kings had, in their court, many scholars who followed
 certain Sidhantes (which were 18 on the whole),
 calculated the position of the luminaries and planets, -
 and prepared almanacs.
       Fortune is never continuous, uniform and constant.
 It is the misfortune that such rulers', vanished; Hindu
 power declined; Astronomy and Astrology were
 neglected. Yet Purohits and Pandits became the custo-
 dians. Probably^ they were neither rich nor intelligent
.enough to carry out research in their days. But they'
 were preparing Almanacs, each - using that Sidhanta
'which appealed to. him.
       Oiir. ancient astronomers -.had clearly mentioned
 in their treatises that the astronomers in future have to
 revise the calculation from time to time, if and when
 found necessary. They have expressed that the results
 arrived at should agree with the scientific and ocuiar
 verification. They are of opinion
["Drik Karanaikya Viheengh, Khetars Sthoolah a na
              Karmanam Arhah".]
                            15

 that if the position of planets is arrived at by using. ,
 a calculation inconsistent with observational precision,
 then the result is only approximate and rough. They
 also said that one should observe religious functions at
 the time arrived at by using' Drik System Also they
 seriously warned "He who misses the day of Anni-
 versary of a departed soul will be penalised by giving
 him rebirths a crore of times
                   " Mittaham Samatikramya
                  Ghandalah Koti Janroasu"
       They do not want us to commit any mistake.
       As-we, the Hindus, fix the dates of our fasts,
 feasts and festivals-, anniversary, ceremony .and birthday
 etc., only on an Astronomical basis, we do not observe
-a rule like—"Thirty days hath September,
              " April, June and November "
      Never is the birthday or the anniversary celebrated'
 on fixed dates of fixed months. Then, people, born on .
_29th February, can celebrate only once in 4 years. But.
 Hindus have elaborate rules which will be published in.
 succeeding issues.
      Some have hazy and incorrect notion that this
 and other elements' of an Almanac are something-
 spiritual and have no astronomical significance. Even
 some learned men, highly educated in other sciences,*^
 under the misconception that the astronomical accuracy
 is needed only for eclipses and.similar phenomena.
      All the elements of the Panchang or the Hindu
 Almanac are Astronomical entities. They are calculated,
 by using Surya Sidhanta, Vakya and Drik Ganitha. The
 motions, relative and absolute, of the planets of the
 Solar system will differ one from the other. Actually,
 the moment of a true geocentric place of a heavenly
 body which is the same for all places on the earth and
 for all people, varies according to the Sidhanta used.
                             16

       In Uthira Kalamritha, Kalidoss mentions that the
 exact positions of planets are to be calculated by Drik
 system. Mantreswarar in his work, Phala Deepika,
 expresses that "Ghathir Drik Thulyathvam Ganitha
 Karanaihi "—the position of planets coincident with
 observation—should be used.
    - If one does not want other's advice as to which
 system is to.be followed, let him calculate using all
 sidhantas including the Drik system.
       (a) Find out where moon will be on a: particular
 night when it is to rise; i.e., in-which sign and in which
 degree. Calculate when that particular part of the
 Zodiac rises in the East. For example, according to
 Prik System, Moon will be rising in Risbaba at 10° (i.e.,
 40° ifrom Mesha 0°); then calculate the exact moment
 when Risbaba 10° will rise in the East for that locality.
 If, at that time, moon also rises, this calculation is
 correct. But if Moon's .position is nearly 6° away, i.e.,
 Rishaba 16° on the same day for that particular time
 according to Vakyam, then calculate when 16° Rishaba
 will rise in the East and observe at that time. It will be
noticed that Moon had already'risen, and come up
 by 6°, then alone 16° Rishaba appears in the East.
      Similarly note the dates when there is much differ-
 ence in the position of Saturn, Mars, etc., between
 Vakyam and Drik . systems of calculation.              Do
-experiments, as mentioned for the Moon.
      Note the moment when eclipse commences, and
when it ends. • Observe which is correct: Vakya or
Drik Ganitha ?
      Knowing fully well, that Drik system is correct,
what is the meaning Of saying "For certain
functions follow Vakya System and for .some other
purposes follow Drik."           Will you allow a cloth
merchant tp use a correct yard stick to- one party
and a smaller yard slick to the other ? Will you accept
                            17

 the piece measured by the shorter yard stick, especially
 when you know that it is not correct? Just as the
 length of a saree measured by different persons will
 vary according to the length of their hands, the position
 of planets will be given in different positions by using
■different methods.
      Research must be made: One may immediately
 retort saying that there is no Varaha Mihira now. Let
 me ask whether, there is a Vikramathithya ? I assure, it
 is possible to have thousands of Varahamihiras- One
■can fish when he is near the water and drink when near
the spring. Sun today is as bright as it was thousands
 of years ago. Will the same brilliant Sun's rays reach
under the bowl. Years ago, the bowl was kept open.
 The Sun's rays reached it. Now the bowl is kept facing
 the earth downwards. How can the ray pass? "Brilli-
ance exists even now. It is hot well utilised. Only when
opportunity is given, new talent and intelligence can
 come to the front which will be advantageous to all.
Readers, I tell you, astrologically I predict that the
days are very fast approaching. It is certain.
      Once His Holiness Sri KanChi Kama Koti Peeta-
dhipathi Jagadh Gum Sri Sankarachariar. Swamigal
had nominated Sri Appu Sastrigal, Appayya Dheek-
shadar and Srinivasa Iyer as Judges: Tinnevelly Sri
Krishna Josier argued for Vakyam while Sri VenkatRkv,
wara Dheekshadhar and Sundaresa Srouthigal advan-
ced their arguments supporting Drik System. It was
finally decided "on 16-12-1937 that Drik System alone
should be followed. Always it is advisable to follow
what the Guru prescribes. Forget Vakyam.
                 Follow Drik and Drik alone
  ' ■ This is and will ever be the Slogan of the Modern
Astronomical and Astrological' Research Institute in
Madras with its branches in Delhi and other important
places.
                          SWA BHUKTH1
       Question: I am> at present, running Saturn dasa,
  Venus bhukti. purihg Saturn dasa, Saturn bbukti, in
  those three years and three days, on the whole, I was
  fortunate. My /salary was increased satisfactorily.
  Status also was very much improved.
       A student of astrology threatened me saying: "If,
  a planet does good to a person in its swa-bhukti, i.e.,
  own bhukti (own sub-period), the remaining eight sub-,
  periods-will be harmful. Is it a fact? What is your
  opinion and scientific explanation ?
                                          s
     . Answer-: The statement of that student may be
  forgotten. That is incomplete and incorrect.
       Let me suggest to you the best method of finding
- out the beneficial sub-periods and also the adverse ones.
            1.    Have your horoscope correctly cast by the
                  Modern Astrological Research Institute,
                  13, Brahmin Street, Saidapet, Madras-15.
                  [This, I have to write, as I am very much
                  pained to see that most of the charts presen-
                  ted to the and some published in books
                  are wrong. In this Institute, it is cast by
                  scholar and verified at least by two others.]
        2.         Request the Manager of the'Institute'^S"
                   furnish you with a dasa-bhukti reference
                   table in which Ae period of-Saturn bhukti
                   running for threp years and three days is
                   sub-divided, and let the duration of each
        -        - anthara or sub-sub-period be also calculated
                   and submitted/or your use.
        3.         From, your diary, note down in which
                   anthara (sub-sub-period) you had fortune
                   and in Which anthara you-had disagreeable
                 ■ results. Similar results alone will repeat
                                   20

               when their bhukties operate for longer
               periods.
       Suppose, you entered Saturn dasa on 10-3-1956.
  The first sub-period, otherwise called bhukti or apahara,
  is ruled by Saturn, the dasa lord himself, for 3 years
  and 3 days from 10-3-56. So, from 10-3-56 to 13-3-59,
  you had Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti. Then, for 2 years
  8 months and 9 days, from 13-3-59 to 22-11.-61, Saturn
  dasa. Mercury bhukti operated. For 1 year 1 month
  and 9 days from 22-11-61 to 1-1-63, Saturn dasa Ketu
" bhukti had beenv running. Then in Saturn dasa of 19
  years,
 from         1- 1-63    to    1- 3-66      Venus bhukti,
    ,,     1- 3-66 to         13- 2-67      Sun bhukti,
    ,,    13- 2-67 to         13- 9-68      Moon bhukti,
    „     13- 9-68       to   22-10-69      Mars bhukti,
    ,,    22-10-69      to    28- 8-72      Rahu bhukti and
                                            finally,
    „    " 28- 8-72      to   10- 3-75
                                     Jupiter
                                         y   bhukti.
      If you sub-divide Saturn bhukti in Saturn dasa,
^ Saturn bhukti, Saturn anthara extends from.
                                         10- 3-56   to   l-._9-56,
    „     „      Mercury      „    „      1- 9-56 to     4- 2-57,
                 Kethu        ,,   „      4- 2-57 • to   8- 4-57,
                 Venus        „    „      8- 4-57 to     8-10-57,
                  Sun         „    „.     8-10-57   to   2-12-57,
                  Moon        ,,   ,,     2-12-57   to   3- 3-58,
                  Mars        ,, . ,,     3- 3-58   to   6- 5-58,
                 Rahu         „    „      6- 5-58   to 18-10-58,
                 •Jupiter     ,,   „     18-10-58   to 13- 3-59.
                           21

      Note all the events between 10-3-56 and 13-3-59.
 Suppose, you had promotion in January, 1957, then, it
 was in the fag end of Mercury sub-sub-period. There-
fore, during Saturn <iasa, Mercury sub-period (or bhukti)
 which ran between 13-3-59 and 22-11-61, in the last
 portion, you ought to have been promoted. If during
 Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, Kethu antara, running bet-
 ween 4.-2-57 and 8-4-57, if any of your close relatives
 had passed an anxious time, then mostly the same
person or a similar relative will again cause anxiety
during Saturn dasa, Kethu bhukti, in between 22-11-61
and 1-1-63. If during VenuS sub-sub-period between
 8-4-57 and 8-10-57, you had your wedding, during
Venus Bhukti, between 1-1-63 and 1-3-66, you will lead
a happy and harmonious life with your wife. Or, if you
had fallen in love in the middle of 1957, then in Venus
bhukti, it will be intimat? and marriage will take place.
If during the next sub-sub-period of Sun, between
 8-10-57 and 2-12-57 you were transferred to a mining
department, then during Sun bhukti, you will surely
have a decent promotion in such a department. If
during Moon's sub-sub-period, your .younger, sister got
married, then during Moon bhukti, between 13-2-67
and 13-9-68, she will lead^a pleasant life and she may
give birth to a child. If during Mars sub-sub-period,'
between 3-3-58 and 6-5-58, you purchased a plot^pf
land with the idea • of constructing a house at a latSf*
date, you will surely build one during ' Mars_bhukti,
between 13-9-68 and 22-10-69. If Saturn dasa, Saturn
bhukti, Rahu antara, caused ' you trouble through
eczema, you can look for similar troubles in Saturn
dasa, Rahu bhukti, between 22-10-69 and 28-8-72. If
you had a child in Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, Jupiter
antara, between 18-10-58 and 13:3-59J the child will
be fortunate when you run Saturn dasa, Jupiter bhukti,
between 28-8-72 and 10-3-75.
                            22

   THIS IS THE FINDING OF THE MODERN
ASTROLOGICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOUN-
DED BY ME.

Why ?
     Any event in-your life is indicated by the relative
position between two planets, 'or one planet and the
cusp of a bouse. They are the significators and they
indicate the results. Such occurrences will happen to
you whenever those planets jointly rule your time.
Similar ones will repeat whenever their periods again
and again operate.
     This is the simplest and most accurate, method of
finding out how the dasa will be, provided your horos-
cope is correct.
     There are many general rules. They should not be
strictly applied. Modifications are many. They are
to be included.                                     ■'
      When a particular dasa runs for many years, during
that period, by transit, all the planets move in many
 signs and houses. They will indicate separately some
results. By progressibn, Moon will be forming various
aspects. Other planets also will form some aspects.
^triey will only confirm the results obtained by following
the simplest method suggested by me. There will never
be a contradictory indication. They will agree. That
is the wonder of Vimshodhari system.
     Suppose one runs Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, and
Saturn transits in the 8th house, or happens to be
ardha-ashtama (the 4th), or there is seven and a half
years Saturn, . otherwise • called sade-sati, one should
not conclude that the time is . evil and the person will
suffer. • There are various other aspects to be taken for
consideration before passing a judgment.
                           23

    For ordinary laymen, my suggestion is the best,
most accurate and the simplest.
       An author has said '.that if a planet were to offer
Rajayoga result and has also to cause Maraka, it
:gives the yoga first and then alone death. By that, the
■adthor means that the Rajayoga planet is your strong
 benefic and hence it allows you to enjoy the fruits of
 this life'to your satisfaction and then alone, it will do
 iiann to your life. . Even in law, there are many rules.
 The spirit of theTaw is to be properly understood.
One has to apply it properly and be pfactical. Analy-
 tical study, correct intuition and good judgment are
 needed for successful astrologers. Mere repetition of
 a sloka like a parrot will not help. That is why many
 good astrologers will have in their horoscopes strong
 and favourable Mercury confering all the qualities of
 a good astrologer. Moon-natives, devoid of beneficial
 aspects from Mercury, cannot become scientific astro-
 logers. Moon may be compared to a mirrof and
 .Mercury to a lens. Moon can simply reproduce those
  which are committed to memory, just as a mirror
 shows the image of the object without any alteration
 ■or improvement. But a lens is different. So also,
  unlike, Moon, Mercury gives sharp intelligence^;
  thorough study, practical application and correct
 judgment.
    Hence, dear friend, you need not worry. . .Follow
my method after correcting your horoscope. Then
you are the best astrologer £or your chart.
      Read the results given by sages for the sub-periods
■of Jupiter in Jupiter dasa, Mercury bhukti in Mercury
 dasa, Venus bhukti in Venus dasa, and so on. All the
authors-give pleasant results. Why? They are natural
 benefics. For you, Saturn, by ownership, becomes a
benefic!
                           24

      Further, note down whether the entire period of
two years, one month and eighteen days of Jupiter
 bhukti, in Jupiter dasa, was good. No. Only certain-
 sub-sub-periods in Jupiter bhukti would have been
 favourable while a few might have been troublesome..
Yet, oh the whole, it will be good. If you ^observe,
you will understand that the antaras of those planets,
which were good ih Jupiter bhukti, will prove to be
very beneficial to a great extent when their bhuktis in
Jupiter dasa operate. Similarly, the adverse antaras-
o'f the few planets will be undesirable during their
bhuktis to a great extent,
     A thorough-Study of Dasa system, progression and".
transit are needed to pass correct judgment. Detailed,
explanations will appear in subsequent issues.
     Further, please carefully study the chapter
" Krishnamurthi Pad hd hat hi'" which will be published
part by part from 1964. You will find that Astrology is
made easy and simple. Further it proves that Astrology
is a wonderful and mysterious science.
       MOLES AND THEIR MEANING

      Neck :—If the mole is in front of the neck, there
•will be grand success in the native's attempts arid he
will be able to save much money and increase his Bank .
position. He will become very popular and enjoy
peace. He or she will rise far above the sphere in
which they are born. It is likely_that the native will
receive honour and" title. It is good to have.a mole
near the throat.
    • If the mole is found on either side of the neck,, it
is likely that he will be wicked and quarrelsome. He
becomes easily irritated and 'will not relish suggestion
from others. He will- act according to his own
conscience. A few culprits, who were hanged to
death, were having the moles behind their ear especi-
ally on the right side. It does not mean that all will
be hanged to death if a mole is. found there.
They will have sudden and miserable end and the cause
of death will be accidental or unnatural.
     If the mole is on the back of the neck, it does not
promise fortune. Loss and failures are portended.
Speculators having a mole in the back of the neck axg^
the contributors of gain to the successful people. . It5*
will be good for them to forget speculation; they should
not to go to races or interest themselves in betting or
games. Chances of gain are for their opponents..

      Nipple:—If the mole is.'on the nipple or very close
 to it, the male will spend much time with his wife or
 a good companion without minding his duty and busi-
ness. He will care more for the pleasure of company.
If the mole is Bluish, he will be very submissive; to
them-. He will waste money and carry out all the orders
                           26

of the lady. . He will ignore his self-respect. A mole
in the nipple in man shows that he will be pleased with
the smile of a lady and will ever long for it. It may be
of advantage to keep the mole covered.

      In a woman, it is a good indication. She will be
-the mother of a child which will be very popular and
prosperous. - At least one of her children vyill be
famous and receive honour all over the world. A girl
must be proud" of having a mole ih the nipple.
             MARS IN EACH STAR

     The Zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts and
•each is called a Sign or Solar Mansion and is named
Aries-Mesha, Taurus-Rishaba, and so on.
     The same Zodiac is also-divided into ^.twenty-seven
 equal parts and each is called a star or a constellation
■or nafcshathra. The stars are named—Aswini, Bharani
 and so on, up to Revathi.
      All planets will give the results (a) according to
iheir nature, (b) such matters indicated by their lord-
■ship, (c) modified by the sign they occupy, (d) modified
 by the constellation occupied by them, (e) by the
 planets conjoined with them and (0 those aspecting
them, etc.
      Now the various results of Mars occupying
•different stars afe given below :
       Mars in Aswini: The person: will be very
  independent, bold, ambitious and pushful. " Pride
  goeth before a fall." Much of egoism .and adamant
 'temperament will bring ruin. He will be arrogant and
  pass caustic remarks. He is respected by people in
  highv position. He will prove to be an excellent
  executive, officer. He is undaunted and is capabletflf
"overcoming difficulties by his courage and confidence^
  He may ifiake his fortune as a Mechanical Engineer,
  Military Engineer, Officer in the Defence department
  or the Police.. He will have the mind to go to the
  front and actually wage war.
     Mars in Bharani: A person bom with Mars in
Bharani, during Mars periods—especially Venus sub-
period—will be very ambitious. He will be a faithful
and reliable officer. He will be able to dehl with all
varieties of labour and handle any affair even at
                          29

critical times. He will be self-centred. He will
spend lavishly on pleasurable pursuits and partners
only.    He will always blow his own trumpet.
Boasting about himself is his main characteristic which
others may not relish. He will lose his temper easily
and control it equally quickly. He will try to come
Before the public and be popular.        He will make
fortune in transport, instrumental music, cinema,
theatres, food materials, w od, surgical instruments,
maternity, etc.
      Mars in Karthikai: The person will antagonize
all by being short tempered. He will be aggressive
and quarrelsome. He will be energetic and excited.
He finds pleasure in competing with others. He will
be a good actor, dancer, musician,, barber or surgeon.
He may have sharp fever, eruptive fever and be pox-
faced. Bleeding in the gums and pyorrhea may be his
common ailment. He may act on impulse. He is
careless in the use of sharp instruments." He will not
cause injury to others but will himself suffer.
      Mars la Rohini: These persons- will use perfu-
meries and'enjoy life in the company of the other sex.
They may own lands and buildings and be rich. At
least they will become' rich during Mars periods.
They cannot control themselves and will be considered
to be veryipassionate. They will have many intimatS1'"*
friends. They are successful in their love affairs.
Romance is one of their, jobs.- They, enjoy all
pomforts in life, car, good furniture, bedding, garden
etc., and a pleasant wife. They will serve in dairy,
farm, shipping, automobile, perfumery industry, navy,
ladies' club, animal husbandry or deal in milk, butter,
ghee, glass,, mica, plastic, pottery industry; through
music, cinema, photo, films; etc., IN RAMAYANA
ALONE it is mentioned as evil.
     Mars in Mrigasirisha: He will be very bold,
couragous, pushful, impulsive and even. rash. He will
                            30

be very shrewd, tactful and diplomatic. He will
receive decent education and will qualify in Medicine
or in Engineering after passing B. Sc. etc. He
will have the sign board with all his qualifications and
other particulars. He will have false pride also.
Even in service he will assume much, pose too much
and imagine that his services are indispensable.
His ego may be undeveloped. A few may be employed
in the Revenue department or. in tea or coffee estates.
A few may be in the Land Mortgage Bank or financiers
for buildings, motors etc. A few may serve in ferti-
lisers, if it is in Taurus or pay engage in Postal, Press,
Telegraph, Mechanical Engineering, Industry, etc.
        Mars in Arudhra: He will have quick grasp,
  retentive power and reproductive ability. He will be
 fortunate to have his higher studies in foreign
  land. He will not be an extremist. He will be God-
  fearing and law-abiding and will be a strict discipli-
  narian. He is best fitted to reorganise any department.
'He will be noble, magnanimous and generous. If he
  finds anybody committing mistakes, he will try to
  correct him, rather than punish him. A judge with
  Mars in Arudhra 'will try to bring about a compromise
  between the plaintiff and defendant, than pass a judg-
 ment by which one may gain and the other lose: He
 -:.Yll be good at occult science and mathematics, service
 in radio, etc.
                                       (to be continued.)■
              MARS IN EACH SIGN
Mars in Leo—Siroha
      Mars is a fiery planet. Leo or Siinha is a fiery
 sign. It is the 5th sign of the Zodiac., Hence Mars is
 strong in triplicity. .
      So, the person having Mars in Leo, during the
 period of Mars will be very active, forceful and rise to
 responsible positions. He will be industrious and
 authoritative. He will be able to manage and-handle-
 any situation. He will organise satisfactorily and
 keep the labourers under control.. - (He will be fond of
 friends. He will enjoy social and financial success.
 He will be generous and successful in his pleasurable
 pursuits. Yet occasionally, he will find' that he is not
 able to keep under Control his emotions and passions.
 He may be hasty in love affairs and act on impulse.
 He will be fearless, enterprising, conscientous, "honest
 and true.,                               ~s
      He will be best fitted to take up any public
 appointment or service under Government. If he-
 speculates during fhe period of Mars, he will have
 gains. Investment in shares will give more dividend
 and permanent possessions greater yield. He can start
 an industrial concern of his own or be a good insurance
 agent. His -intuition regarding- the' fluctuation in
 prices of shares will proVe to be correct. He will act.
 in proper time and gain.
      Evil aspects of planets to Mars makes one mili-
 tant, adamant, argumentative, aggressive and atroci-
 ous. He will have enemies, but will face all difficul-
 ties with courage and confidence.- It shows disappoint-
 ment if Saturn.afflicts. Venus, afflicting Mars, threatens
 sorrow in love, separation or bereavement of the part-
,ner. Jupiter shows extravagance or death of a child.
 Sun threatens trouble through superiors or Govern-
                             32

-ment.     Moon, afflicting Mars by adverse aspects,,
protends rash action, over-trading and loss through
 speculation. Rahu or Kethu conjoined with -Mars in
Leo gives peculiar diseases. They may be of tumerous
 character. There may be . injuries due to accidents or
difficulties through operation. If it happens to be the
 12th house, imprisonment or hospitalisation may be
expected in their joint periods. Mercury, afflicting
Mars, shows fault finding, restlessness, loose temper,
and loss by deceit, fraud, pilfering," thieving or for-
gery.     He may conduct. strikes or carry on false
propaganda.
      Good aspects to Mars indicate a love for inven-
tions, instrumental music, dance, ability in'Mechanical
Engineering, etc. He may gain much in the later-part
of life. His health will be robust.
Mars in Virgo—Kanni
       Virgo is the 6th sign of the Zodiac. Mercury is its
 lord and it is an earthy and common sign. It is inimi-
 cal to Mars; yet people, born with Mars in Virgo-
 "Kanni, will be intelligent and interested in Engineering,
 Science and will be . original.     He may try to gain
 reputation or to have greater authority and power. It
 is not unlikely that the person meets with adverse
.{"faults and reversals. He may have much opposition
 and his enemies may bring about his downfall. His
 juniors may be promoted and the native will be
 annoyed, irritated and occasionally reverted. He may
 earn-through trade in spare parts, repairing old ones
 and selling second-hand goods or through Press,
 Mechanical engineering, Telegraph department, Supply
 of materials to the Defence department, contract with
 the Police, Military and Industries department and
 through independent and general business. He will be
 qiiick-wjtted, tactful and intelligent. He will prove to
 be good in medicine, surgery, chemistry and typing and
 may serve in such departments.
                              33
       He will be careful about his diet; yet his bowels
 and the nervous system may suffer, especially in the
 conjoined periods of Mars and Mercury.
       Mars in Virgo brings depressing telegrams, inform-
 ing'himthat his friend had passed away. It is not ruled
 out that he may quarrel with his friend and get. separa-
 ted. In his own industry , there will be labour trouble,
 strikes, etc., and he may also suffer due to overwork.
  Mars in Libra—Thulam
      It is the 7th sign of the Zodiac ruled by Venus. It
 is an airy, tnovable and positive sign.
       Therefore Mars in Libra gives the native intuitive
 mind (clear thinking), correct judgment, keen obser-
 vation, and enterprising nature. He "will occupy a
 position of authority. He will be a successful business-
 man. He will also be an able advocate, judge, assessor
 or surgeon of -the abdominal region for hernia,
 appendicitis, etc. Wherever he goes, whatever he does,
 he will find much competition. Yet, he will come out
 successful. His enemies, competitors, etc., may be out-
 lived by him. In matrimonial affairs, he or she with
Mars in Libra will have many rivals—yet finally, he or
she will be selected and married. In pleasurable
pursuits, he will be impulsive; in love affairs veryc
rash ; the opposite sex has to exercise control. It is
also likely that he invites troubles by such rash^c,^.,
violent action. To many people. Mars gives marriage
early in their life. If it is'afflicted, they will have petty
quarrels often.     Those who have Mars afflicted by
Venus, will get married late in life and will have diffi-1
culty or disappointment in married life.
The native becomes wise when he completes the Mars
period, as he would have experienced all varieties of
troubles during its dasa.    He will be specially
unlucky if Uranus squares Mars.
                CANCER (Katakam)

                             By
                        ARUDHRA
   (Modern Astronomical and Astrological Research Institute,
            13. Brahmin Street, Saidapet, Madras)
     Cancer is the fourth sign of the Zodiac. (The first
sign is Aries, the second is Taurus, the third is Gemini,
the fourth is Cancer and so on.) This sign is also
30 degrees in longitude and extends from the 90th
degree from Vernal Equinox (or Aries, Mesha 0 degree)
to the 120th degree.
     Punarvasu (Punarpushyam)' 4th quarter (pada),
Pushya" (Poosam) and Aslesha (Ayilyam) are contained
in the sign Cancer-
     According to Sayana system, nowadays, the Sun
enters the sign Cancer (the crab) approximately on the
21st June and passes through the sign for over 30 days
and leaves it on 23rd July. If one's birth date falls
within these dates, one is called a Cancerian, as the Sun
will be found in Cancer, according to Sayana system.
Sun will move jiist less than one degree a day through,
this sign. Therefore the date of birth will indicate the
approximate degree occupied.by the Sun at birih
time. For example, if one was born on 22nd June,
Sun will .be found in the first degree of Cancer, as Sun
enters this sign only on 21st June. If the birth takes
place on 30th June, Sun will be found in the 9th
degree. On 1st July, 10th degree, on 11th July around
20th degree and so on.
     According to Nirayana system, Sun will, through-
out Kaliyuga, enter Cancer or Kataka approximately
on 17th July and after transiting the two and a
quarter nakshathras or constellations found in this
                            36

sign, enter on 17th August the next sign, namely Leo
or Simha. All those who are born between 17th July
and 16th August will have the Sun placed in Cancer in
their horoscope (Nirayana system). Therefore, accor-
ding to Sayana system, people born between 21st June
and 23rd July any year will have their Sun marked in
Cancer, whereas, according to Nirayana system, people
born between 17th July and 16th August any year will
have their Sun entered in Cancer.
     Cancer is the first sign of the watery triplicity, the
others being Vrischika and Meena. Its quality is cardi-
nal, movable or chara. It is a feminine and fruitful
sign. It is a mute sign too. If, .for instance, a malefic
like Kethu,. happens / to be posited in Cancer in the
second house, it. indicates defect in speech; the
nativ& may be even dumb. Cancer is one of the five
Prishtodaya rasis (Mesha, Rishaba, Dhanus and
Makara are the other four signs rising with their back.)
Cancer is a nocturnal sign (Gemini and all Prishtodaya
signs are termed nocturnal sighs). It is a tropical sign,
and a sign of long ascension. When Sun is in Cancer,
it will be in the northern hemisphere and so Cancer is
also termed a northern sign.
      This sign is symbolised by a crab. It does not
 meein that the crabs are wishy, nor the people born in
■Cancer. But the type of people born between these
 dates are called the Teacher or the Prophet, because
 they can teach or preach or recite or act or speak in
 public and carry the gathering with them.
     Cancer is governed by Moon.. Jupiter gets exalted
here, its highest point of exaltation being 5 degrees,
while Mars is debilitated in this.sign and is said to be
completely debilitated (Parama neecha) in the 28th
degree.. To Sun, Cancer is a friend's sign; to Mercury,
Venus and Saturn, it is "the enemy's quarters.
                           37

      Physical features : Clumsy body, slender limbs
 and powerful claws are the peculiarities of the crab.
 People born in Cancer generally have a large upper
 body. As age advances, they acquire, by over-eating, a
.prominent, abdomen. Face is wide between the ears,
 and the mouth will be large with nice teeth of chalky
 colour. The hair will be brown and the complexion
 pale. As the limbs are extremely slender when compa-
 red to the large upper body, the whole body appears
 top heavy and one will walk with a rolling gait. Gene-
 rally, dwarfs ire born in this sign. .
     Characteristics : The ruling planet of Cancer is
the Luna or the Moon. Juliet says, " Oh, swear not by
the Moon, the inconstant Moon!". But in Odtaa
Masefield says "The Moon, the inconstant, keeps her
will."    Cancer-born natives are remarkable for a
changeful life. They have many ups and downs.
Moon gives them fertile imagination, delighting in
strange scenes and adventures. They can adapt to
others' nature and quickly absorb others' ideas.
They are often emotional and over-sensitive and also
sympathetic.     They are somewhat sentimental and
talkative. Due to extreme sensitiveness, there will be
a high degree of nervous irritability. They ably movo
with the public to gain some position of wealtjj or
honours. Just as one can see the Moon eitherj
waxing or waning, either as Full Moon or as New
Moon, so also one can find the Cancer-boras timid on
some occasions and very courageous under other cir-
cumstances. Generally, they are timid to face physical
danger, but are brave in mental or moral attitude.
Their temper is also changeable. Anger comes and
goes in quick alternation.
     Cancer, being the fourth sign of the zodiac and the
fourth house, indicates about one's domestic environ-
ments. Cancer-boras are fond of home, family and its
                            38

 comforts. They have a tenacious memory, especially
 for family or historic events. Fear of ridicule or criti-
 cism makes them discreet, diplomatic and conventional.
 They appreciate approbation and are easily encouraged
 by kindness. The ladies, born in this sign, ate discreet
 and independent in many things. They are very labo-
 rious, though somewhat exacting. Their anger is short-
 lived and they hold no spite. Though lacking in phy-
 sical strength, they are no hypocrites, but always have
the courage of their convictions: they voice and mildly
 defend them too. As the fourth house shows estates,
 evil planets herein show that there will be difficulty in
acquiring wealth. It is also likely that inheritance is
lost through relatives or through children or specula-
.tion or by love attachments and pleasurable pursuits.
Such experiences will be only in the first part of the
life of the Cancer-borns. In the latter part of their
life, they will have grand success and prosperity.
Generally, all Cancer-borns inherit money, property,
kingdom, etc., but. it comes to them only with great
tardiness, or in spite-of various hindrances, impedi-
ments and obstacles. In advanced years, their children
are often the source of protection.
^    Cancer is said to be the sign of sensitive people
and mediums. The higher vibrations of Cancer give
Jher^ndowment of clairvoyance and a keen feeling for
art. So the Cancer-borns have the psychic and mediu-
mistic faculty. Many magicians, mimics and actors are
born in Cancer.
     Most' of the Cancer-borns "are sensitive, retiring
and unassuming.. If they are ignored, overlooked or
neglected, they become moody and also peevish. Like
the elephant, they will never forget.
   One will be lucky to have a partner born in Cancer
who will be romantic and imaginative. The Cancer-
                           39

boms recapture the golden moments of the past and
keep the partner cheerful and enthusiastic.
      Cancer being a watery sign, the native can be
-easily influenced and will adjust to circumstances even
as water takes the shape of the vessel in which it is
kept.
    Water is not compressible. So also Cancer-borns,
when coerced, become very stubborn and determined.
     Cancer, being a movable, watery sign, even as
water runs in a river, many Cancer-borns lead a wande-
ring and restless life, thrown this way and. that way by
emotions and imagination, by which they are com-
pletely ruled. They have rarely the necessary showman-
ship and push to come to the fore. Anyhow, it is, from
the state and position of the Moon at birth, that the
-opportunities and chances can be reliably assessed.
      In love affairs, once their love is given or their
 affections centred, they are strong and true. They will
never give up unless the partner does something very
■drastic. Generally, they pour out boundless affection.
That is why the relatives and friends enjoy real happi-
 ness in being underneath the' Cancerian's roof. The
Cancern-borns are famous for true hospitality.
      They tend to miss many an opportunity, bem£ in
the habit of pondering over a thing over and over'J
again and put off the requisite. action promptly at the
proper time. When they are ready to move, they will
find that the chance has slipped away. They will be un-
decided as to whether to purchase a lottery ticket or
not, and pass on many we»ks in this way and when,
finally, they decide to buy, they will find that the
 lottery had already been drawn. One will- delay buying
an umbrella or a raincoat but when he buys one, the
rainy season would have come to an end. This should
not be cultivated-
                           41

     Cancer-born natives have the deep feelings of
loyalty and responsibility. If they decide upon a plan,
they stick to it with dogged determination till success
attends their efforts at last. They are much more
interested in getting small sums of money from a
variety of sources than a big and sizable amount from
one source. Anyone, getting a*considerable lump
amount in any single business, is not likely to be
born in Cancer.
    Cancer-born natives realize the fullest significance
of money and they are a little too personal.
     He may conquer the trials in his life, yet he does
not forget them easily. They are ever brought to-
memory. A father who, from a humble beginning,
rose, up to a high position later, will, even though he
is affluent, will constantly keep before his children
the poverty in which he once lived.
     Cancer-born natives are ultimately fortunate. They
will appear open and frank at sight, but, in reality,
they are - not so, as they hide much from others.
They are impressionable and magnetic.
     Characteristics to be corrected: He should not
be impatient. People born in Cancer, with Saturn rising-'
in the Ascendant, alone will be patient- Mars rising in
Cancer makes one short-tempered also. Hence patience-*
and endurance are to be cultivated. Don't be very
sensitive and extremely selfish. Changeability and indo-
lence are the other weaknesses.
    - Health: Being the fourth sign of. the Zodiac and
one ruled by Moon, the health of the Cancer-borns
will be fragile in youth, ibut, .as age advances, they
will pick up health.
   Cancer rules the chest and stomach. As Moon
owns this sign and it indicates one's worry, etc., the-
                            42

-chief cause of their physical troubles will be only
 worry. They have to take care of both the pulmonary
 and digestive systems. If they control their mind, they
 can control their body with the help of a reasonable
 diet, proper physical care, etc. They suffer much but
 they can also endure much. They should not let their
 love of liquids lead to over-indulgence in the alcoholic
 kind. They have to guard against asthma, gastric dis-
 turbances and weak digestion. They should take care
-of the throat. Simple living is the best preventive.
 They should satisfy thirst with water and not with
 alcohol. A few suffer from rheumatism and sciatica.
 There are also indications of danger by falls and hurts
 from animals while travelling or residing in foreign
•countries.
      Disease : Affections of both the lungs, flue, cough,
■asthma, bronchitis, pleurisy, tuberculosis, affections of
 the oesophagus, stomach, dyspepsia, flatulence, dropsy,
 beri beri, nervous debility, fear complex, hysteria,
 jaundice, obstruction of the bile, gall stone, worms
.hnd boils on the chest just below collar bone.
        Finance and profession: People having the
 influence of Cancer are best suited to a commercial
^career, especially to the trade of a caterer. Many
  manage their own restaurants, coffee and tea stalls.
  Sofile run general stores, grocer shops, fruit stall, etc.
  Those who enterMnto service are employed in hospitals
  as male and female nurses, matrons, managers and
 rsecretaries in business, hire purchase regulators, under-
  takers, furnishers, etc. As Cancer-boms are historians
  and are interested in things of the past, they deal
  in antiquities; they collect curios. They get employed
  in the history section or archaeological department:
 .at least they will deal in second-hand articles.
     . "Cancer being-a watery sign, Cancer-borns are
 -dealers in things derived from water: conches, .pearls.
                             43

fish, etc. They also work as great sailors, sea captains,
explorers and in the navy and submarine. Some may
serve in the shipping department, and take active
interest in imports and exports, transport or travels
and in concerns.dealing in milk products.
      As Jupiter gets exalted in this sign, many born in
 this sign become successful preachers, inspiring teachers,
■eloquent orators, platform speakers. State ministers
And popular advisers.
      Mars, getting debilitated here, indicates the kisans,
Agriculturists and those working in gardens. Satum-in
 detriment shows that some will live by digging wells,
•excavating tanks or by diving in the sea.

      Cancer being the 4th sign of the Zodic, the natives
•will be interested in developing Vedic and sacred texts.

      People, who are born in Cancer with the lord of
 the sign in the very beginning of this sign, will be rich in
their infancy. Later, for a period of 36 to 43 years
they will have many ups and downs. They may have
to face difficulties after difficulties, one following the
 other. Only when they complete 46 years of age can
 they have peace and prosperity. Those bom in Cancer
with Moon in the centre of it, will have sufferings dill
they come of nearly 33 years of age. They will have a
 new cycle of bright and better life only thereafter. If
Moon, the lord of the Ascendant, is in the end of Can-
cer, the native may have some difficulties in youth, but
■in his collegiate days and onwards, he and his family
will enjoy the fruits of life to the fullest satisfaction. If
Moon is in the beginning, then a maximum of 4 years
of Jupiter dasa will be good. Later, the dasas of Saturn,
 Mercury and Kethu will be evil. Jupiter is lord of 6
And 9. Saturn is the lord of the eighth house or ashta-
 madhipathi. Budha is vrayadhipathi or lord of 12.
                            44

Hence, people born in Cancer will generally run the
dasas of lords of 6, 8 and 12.
      After Kethu's period, they will enjoy the benefit,,
through Venus, lord of the eleventh house ; Sun, lord
of the 2nd; Moon, lord of the lagna and Mars, a
Rajayogadhipathi. Hence people born in Asleshas
especially those born towards the end of this asterism,.
can enjoy life for a major period of their life while
those born in Punarvasu (Punarpoosam) 4th pada and
Pushya fPoosam) stars have to undergo trials in the
first half of their life, unless they have other mitigating
influences in their horoscope. But people born in
Cancer, ascendant with the Moon transiting in Kethu's
stars Aswini, Makam or Moolam and in Venus's stars
Bharani, Pooram (Poorvaphalguni) or Pooradam (Poor-
vashada) will have a good start in life and they will be
successful.
     Cancer-borns are careful where money is concer-
ned. Being themselves very honest, they cannot tolerate
dishonesty in others. Their tastes are but modest and
hence they do not defray expenses on extravagant
display. They value money for what it is worth and
are very prudent. They accumulate wealth by dint of
their own hard efforts.

     Domestic environments: Cancer-born natives are
devoted to their family. They love their home wher-
ever they live. The home and the garden always keep
them engaged. They derive pleasure here alone. They
collect old things and store them in shelves and kitchen. '
Though they make constant journeys, they are at home
only when they are in the home. They do not mind
taking trouble to make their life comfortable. They-
invite friends and attend on them- to their fullest satis-
faction.- Canceiians will iprefer to have their business
in their residential quarters or very close to it as they
                            45

prefer to be always at home surrounded by children and
attended .by a pleasing wife-
   . Friends and benefactors: As Cancer-born natives
are hyper-sensitive and also unassuming, they have the
great desire to acquire friendship but they dci not have
many long-standing and intimate friends—the Cancer-
borns become moody and peevish whenever they feel
that some friends neglect them or overlook them. JBut
they will never forget the good done to them by friends
and ever remain grateful to the core. They will recol-
lect the old days and ponder over the benefits bestowed
by friends.
     Romance : For Cancer-born natives, life will be
monotonous without romance. They will sacrifice
their comforts, etc.-j and be very loyal and affectionate.
But they cannot impress upon the mind of the partner
that they are sincere and true- The other sex is prone
to feel that the Cancer-borns are fickle-minded and
changeable while, in fact, they are remarkably
stubborn and determined.
      Marriage: Cancer-born natives enjoy their family
life to the full and the home and the family are of
great consequence to them. Marriage, therefore, will
offer them an opportunity to. have a well-settled life.^
Husbands, born in Cancer, will be mostly affectionate,
adjusting and accommodative even though, -at tirSes,
they may be exacting and fussy. A Cancer-born native
will generally contract marriage with a girl who will
pave the way for domestic comfort and further pros-
perity. They will manage to keep the wife cheerful
 and buoyant, pleasing her in all ways. - They are
devoted to their wives, and occasionally, they will
interfere in household routine and thereby spoil their
good intentions. Their trait is-and this requires correc-
tion-thatthey are of ten dissatisfied and will be indulging
in criticism of something or other.
                             46

      Girls born in Cancer are genuine in their love and'
are sincere in their devotion to husbands. Occasionally
they tend to be moody. They feel satisfied with any-
thing offered by their husbands. They prove good
mothers to their children. They are adaptable and.
affectionate, dutiful and devoted, patient and pleasing^
and sincere and sympathetic. They will spare no pains-
to attend to the needs of their husbands and offer them
spiritual strength.
      Children: Cancer-born natives take efforts tO'
 give good education to their children and they are-
 excellent parents in the matter of providing all facilities
 and comforts to them. They will go to the limit of
 sacrificing even their own needs, if necessary, to avoid
 denial of their children's desires. They are never
 disheartened by the large size of their family. Their
 children also remain grateful, obedient, dutiful and
 faithful; they have great energy, courage and indepen-
 dence. They are very frank; they stand up for their
 rights and never submit to imposition. They are full
 of worries brooding over things that may happen, but.
 they will never flinch in the hour of danger. They will,
 perform deeds of heroism with a disregard of self which-
jnay amount to fool-hardiness. Their mind will be^
 cool, calm, collected and sharp.
      Handwriting; Moon, the lord of the sign, being;
 variable in nature, the handwriting also will be
 variable; the formation of letters will be in different,
 ways and shapes. Their letters will become larger as-
 they go on writing. When they are in a good mood,,
 they draw wavy lines beneath their signatures.
      Lucky Day : ' Tuesday will be the day of success-
 Fridays give pleasure tand profit. Wednesday is good.
 for journey, investment and expenses. Thursdays are
 good for contacting bankers and arranging overdraft
                           47

accounts. To join a college for higher studies, or to go'
overseas or to contact foreigners, Thursdays will prove-
auspicious. Avoid Saturdays as disharmony, difference
of opinion, depression, dispute, delay and denial will
be the result generally. Mondays will give changeable
temperament and success in efforts. Sundays are
pleasant to have the company of close relatives and.
also to gain money. Also one should be lucky onl the
days when Moon transits in Mfigasirisha, Chitra and
Dhanishta (Avittam) star days, foosam (Pushyam),
Aslesha (Ayilyam), Anuradha (Anusham), Jyeshta
(Kettai), Uthrabhadrapada (Uttirattadhi) and Revati
star days are to be avoided.
     Lucky Colour: White, cream, red and yellow
are lucky colours. Blue and green colours should be
avoided.
    Lucky Number :
    2, 7 and 9 are fortunate.
    1, 3, 4 and 6 are good.
    5 and 8 are to be avoided.
    Lucky Gems: Diamond, pearls, ruby, yellow
sapphire. Avoid blue sapphire and emerald. Blue
colour shows opposition and emerald will not allow0


    God or Goddess to be prayed for :
    For health       :    Goddes^ Gowri, Uma.
    For finance      :    Lord Narayana and Goddess
                            Lakshmi.
    For success and
      prosperity    :     Lord Murugan and Ganesh.
    Places: Canals, rivers, lakes, seas, wells, springs,
brooks, sinks, sedges, ditches, marshes, trenches,
                            48

wash-houses, cellars, pumps, fisheries, dairy farm,
car stand,. cart stand, common sewers, wharfs and
fields near the sea..
     Products: Milk and milk products, silver, tea,
petrol, shipping, commerce, business, all liquids, fruits,
coffee (liquid), rubber, greens, cabbage and mush-
room.
      Countries indicated: Holland, Scotland, New
Zealand, North and West Africa, Mauritus, Anatolia
near Constantinople, Paraguay, Stockholm and Men-
.grelea.
    Towns represented: St. Andrews, Deptford, Man-
chester, Rochdale, York, New York, Algiers, Amster-
dam, Berne, Cadiz, Constantinople, Genoa, Lubeck,
Magdeburg, Milan, Tunis, Venice, Vincentia and
Medenburg.
      Animate and. inanimate objects : Paspalum, plan-
tains, Dhurva grass, fruits, bulbs, fragrant leaves,
cocoanuts, barley, wheat, rice, sugarcane, -forests,
ministers, kings, fishermen, honest persons, those who
sacrifice their comforts, counterfeits, bulbs, roots,
fruits, worms, reptiles, poison, robbers, husk-gram,
physicians, etc.
   0
     Characteristics to be corrected: They have to
overcome their timidity by their efforts with' practical
results. They should avoid inferiority complex. They
should try to have something stable upon which they
can pin their hopes. . They should not be over-anxious
about the future. They should not be passive and lazy
and should not pay attention to sentimentalities and.
vanity. They should not control emotions and develop
 the spiritual side. They should not be vindictive. And
success will be in store for them.
   ARE YOU RUNNING SUN PERIOD? KNOW
      WHAT TO DO AND WHAT TO AVOID

                     K. Ganapathy


      Sun runs its period for exactly 6 years, all the nine
■planets have their sub-periods in the order given ; each
has its own duration anditis not equally divided, thus,
from the date of commencement of Sun dasa, the sub-
 period of Sun will run for 3 months and 18 days,
 followed by the sub-periods of Moon (6 months). Mars
(4 months 6 days), Rahu (10 months 24 days), Jupiter
^9 months 18 days), Saturn (11 months 12 days), Mer-
eury (10 months 6 days), Kethu (4 months 6 days)
 and Venus (1 year).
 Quintessence of a Sun period :
      By Nature: Sun will bring name, fame, reputa-
 tion, honour, popularity, prosperity, steadiness, sound-
 ness, solidarity and permanency.
   v                  ■
      Physical: It offers immunity and resistance
against infectious -diseases. The native's physique will
ibe sturdy and robust. He can stand the strain even ''
 when he overworks. Recovery from illness in aby
 evil sub-period will be quick as the native's constitution
is strong. The native will be active and will attend
 to his duties without taking the required rest. So
:Sun-nativejwill be impatient to remain in the nursing
home as a patient till he is completely cured.
      Mental: They will be forceful and highly mag-
netic. Their emotions will be fully active. They will
be genuinely kind and warm-hearted. They will be
practical with regard to their ideas and ideals. They
•will love a rural atmosphere more than urban surroun-
                            50

dings. They will choose their habitations in remote
places far removed from the maddening crowd. If a
person purchases a land or a farm during the period
of Sun, he will take to farming as a hobby or will
undertake it as a business proposition as Sun offers
grand success in this pursuit.
     Sun is called Dhanvanthri. So one may have
the inclination to learn Ayurveda (if Jupiter and Mars
are conjoined with Sun), or Homeopathy (if Uranus is
conjoined with Sun or in the star of Sun), and prove
to be a successful practitioner.
     One.may or may not be particularly religious
during the earlier periods. But when Sun begins to
rule, the native will turn to religion especially when
Sun has some connection with Jupiter. He may even
engage himself in religious activity doing meritorious
deeds.                        ^
     Such matters which,have been vague and undecided
all along will be sharply defined by Sun. "One will
assume'a more positive tone. Sun will enthuse him to
take quick and correct decisions.
       He will know when to approach the officers in high;
 position for their favour and how to influence those
■who will be -really helpful, and whose, suggestion,
 ad /ice' and assistance will be of great advantage to
 him.

What can one expect?
    The native.can expect interesting happenings in his
business. If he is in service, he will look for 'promo-
tion and permanency.      Popularity will be-achieved
through publicity in newspapers and periodicals. It is
possible to have the unanimous approval of the share-
holders and he can' launch fresh and big. schemes
which will progress satisfactorily. If he is a minister
                              51

 and if he brings in any taxation measure, it will be
 well received even by the tax-payers and share-brokers.
 There can be no labour dispute, nor bad relations with
 servants. He will also work with enthusiasm. He
 will go ahead with his programme with confidence.
 His objectives will be improved and furthered.
     Physical ability, mental strength, financial sound-
 ness and material advancement are offered by Sun
 slowly, steadily, surely, satisfactorily, and substantially.
 Warm cordiality, agreeable temperament, flourishing
 business and sound bank position are promised by Sun
 during his period, receiving, assistance from those
 whom he may approach.

 Whom to approach?
     He will approach only those who can fulfil his
desire. Whenever he has a question in his mind, he
should not hesitate to approach thosei. who are in
power. He should not feel delicate and thereby delay.
He should be bold and pushful.' He should not be
pessimistic, but should have the courage and confidence.
Success is sure and certain. Whenever Sun receives
aspect from Saturn, he will be having a feeling of
inferiority complex. He will have his own fears, an*}
will postpone everything. So, he should follow < the
above advice and. not allow Saturn to have his way.
      He can approach -the Ministers, Secretary, Mem-
 bers of Parliament, Managing Directors, Principals,
 Government officials. Director of Medical Services,^
Director of Public Health, Appointing authorities, ^
Appellate authorities, Directors-General, Tribunals,
etc. He should not go.to subordinates, who will give
vain hopes and unnecessarily pull on for a long time
and keep him in suspense, which is worse than
disappointment.
                            52

How to approach?
      When the native approches another, he should not
under-estimate himself, yet talk politely. He should be
modest; but, without any fear, he should' put up his
case strongly. Never should he forget to compliment
and comment on the good done to many people by the
person whom he may approach. In his conversation,
he should mention that he is aware of his benevolent
contributions. Even God is pleased by proper praise
and prayer. But he should not exaggerate, nor lose
his self-respect. He should have to talk on a man-to-
man basis of equality. Those people who have Sun and
Mars conjoined together should never despair. Even if
they have a negative reply to start with, they should be
slow to receive it. He should be discreet. He will serve
his purpose by shooting his most convincing argument
and surely winning him round. Those having Sun in
close conjunction with Mercury will be clever and, by
their tact and diplomacy, they will conduct themselves
properly and will be successful. Sun and Venus,
conjoined together, offer pleasant manners ; such people
will ever be smiling and will somehow manage to come
 but successful though they may not be intelligent. He is
sure to be afraid of only Saturn who will throw in
 numerous obstacles. Even when the high official calls
 hirmpn the phone to see him, the peon at the gate
„will act as a " Nandi       and will not allow him to go
 to the officer straightaway, because Saturn would have
 sent, without previous engagement, a much higher
 official to discuss with.his officer on an urgent and very
 important matter. So, 'such people will have to take
 the above advice, whereas others will naturally act as
 mentioned above during Sun's period.
What to do next ?
  ^ Act on constructive lines. Keep your ambitions
lofty. You will be able to launch fresh enterprises.
                            54

You will prove to be a good organiser. All policies so
far contemplated and their merits and demerits dis-
cussed, will be decided. You will never relish to get
tied up to routine and monotonous work. Your desire
will be to expand and organise. Suggestions from
others should not be discarded. You will find them
useful and wise.
     Come in contact with people holding high posi-
tion. Take active interest in clubs and societies.
Don't be dogmatic, imperious or dictatorial. You will
be able to lead others and act creatively. In Sun's
period,, you will give your 'ideals a firm and practical
footing. You will be highly respected and loved by
 your subordinates. You will extract work from them,
recognise their service andstrongly recommend theircase
for further promotion, etc. But, if your Sun receives
aspect from Saturn, you will not oblige them, nor for-
ward their papers to higher authorities.         People-
generally say that their time is bad as it is the sub-
period of Saturn; they may also add that their matters
are not moving fast in their favour as Saturn has been
unduly delaying, occasionally denying and mostly dis-
appointing.    So saying, they are depressed. Does
 Saturn come down to the earth to do you harm ? It is
afte? all a planet. Astrology explains how Saturn
nvorks. The officer who stands in your way, without
any valid reason, may be-either low-born, and ill-bred
and he will be the " Avathar " of Saturn when you run
your Saturn sub-period. Or he might, have been born
on a Saturday or in any one of the Stars of Saturn, i.e.,
Pushyam, Anuradha or Uthrattadhi, otherwise called
Uthrapathrapada, or in Capricorn or Aquarius as his
ascendant without any modification.
     If your post is not transferable, the day your
Saturn sub-period is over, the officer will be transferred
or he will retire or he will pass away. Then the person
                            55

 •who takes charge will do you justiccj redress your
 grievance, and restore you to your legitimate position.
 He will be one governed both by Sun and Mercury,
 having been born on their days, star days, lagna, etc.
     If you run other sub-periods in Sun, your officer
will be noble, dutiful and just. You will also be
magnanimous towards your subordinates.
     If you are holding a post temporarily either in
leave vacancies or a post which is newly created and"
which is extended year after year, Sun will make your
post permanent and you will also be made permanent
in service.- Generally, permanency, promotion and
prosperity, are portrayed by Sun, in the sub-period of
Jupiter, Mercury or Venus.
'What to avoid?
      Avoid unrestrained utterances. Don't stand on
formalities. Don't give undue regard for others* posi-
tion. Aloofness, seclusion, detachment, shunning
society, austerity are to be avoided. Otherwise, you
•will be disappointed. The bad qualities of Saturn
should not overpower you.
      Whenever passions are easily rousedj it is for you^
 to consider whether they are justified. Even when you
 are resentful or irritated, don't adopt any destructive }
 course. Don't be violent. It will stir up only fresh
■opposition.
     Precautionary measures for health ; Constitution
will be bilious and over-heated. During Mooa's sub-
period, you are liable to suffer from inflammatory
diseases, usually epidemics. It will undermine your
vitality if Moon is either lord of 6 or conjoined with
lord of 6 or if Moon is in the constellation of lord of 6
or if it is in 6 or 8 or 12 to Sun. Prevention is better
than cure. It will be better if you have re-vaccination;
                           56

     If the sub-period is that of Mars and if it is either
lord of 6 or conjoined with lord of 6 or in the constel-
lation of the lord of 6, or in the constellation of the
planet occupying the 6th house, or if it is in 6 or 8 or
12 to Sun, you may suffer from ill-health, from acute
complaints of a very short duration, such as measles,,
poxes, accidents, injuries, burns, bruises or burns by
the pouring of acids (Sun, Moon, Mars), high fever,
plague, malaria, etc. Early treatment-will prevent
further complication.
      During Mercury sub-period, you will suffer from
 mental depression, nervous breakdown, vitamin 1 B"*
 deficiency, dull liver, gas trouble etc. If Mercury is'
 the Lord of 6, or satisfies any one of the other connec-
 tions, be calm. Don't think of the past or the future.
 Don't magnify minor worries.           Don't be upsets
 Actually ill-health is due to your mental strain.
 Unnecessary worries will tell upon your health. Leave
 everything entirely to God. Surrender to Him. Da
 your duty. Take Vitamin B Forte with liver extract.
 Be sure that your fortunate days are fast approaching.
 A person would have crossed the river safely. Yet he
 has to climb up the bank which is slippery. He needs
 help so that he can reach the bank without falling;
■dovm. Real help can be had if he completely surren-
ders to God ,* for the moment remember that His help
 is necessary. If your efforts are needed, God will
 force you to make such attempts.
     Jupiter, in its sub-period, causes ailment due to
excesses. Limit your diet. Plethora and obesity may
also cause trouble if Jupiter has any connection with
6th house, Blood disorders need ' good treatment..
Avoid indigestible foods:
    Venus, in its sub-period, may cause throat trouble,
eye troubles and also disease in the generative system.
                            57

 especially when it occupies the 2nd, 5th, .7th or 9th
 house from Lagna. All venereal diseases are caused by
 Venus. Removal of Uterus or o.vary, sufferings from
 fibroid tumour bleeding, etc., are indicated by Sun and
 Venus.
      Saturn, in its sub-period, may cause injury to the
 bone.- Avoid chills and colds. Treat rheumatic pains
 early. By falling down yourself or something falling
 on you, you may fracture the bone. The combination,
 of Sun, .Saturn and Mars portend amputation.
       Rahu and Ketu, in their sub-periods, will give
 such ailments as are indicated by the lord of the con-
 stellation in which they are posited at birth. Either
 may occupy the 6th house or may be in the con-
 stellation of lord of 6 or conjoined with lord of 6.
 Then only, they will prove to be harmful.
      (Results of Uranus, Neptune etc., will appear later
 after the students learn progression and aspects.)
      Finance and fortune: Steady income and sure
 rise inl ife can be had during the period of Sun. You
 can expect good returns from permanent possessions.
 Arrears will be recovered.       Pending bills will be
 realised. But don't be extravagant. Mars, connected
 with Sun in any manner, will force you to spend
 lavishly. Jupiter shows heavy expenses to maintainj
 false prestige. Saturn and Kethu threaten waste and
 loss. Hence, if you are careful, you will be able to
 save satisfactorily. ' Make hay while the Sun shines'
 will prove to be true.
       Prosperous profession : Service in all departments'
  under the Government, public institutions, mint, stock
  exchange association, medicine, drug etc. will be fruit-
  ful. The products in which one can make his fortune
_ may be referred to in the previous issue of this magazine
  in which the products of Sun have been given. Sun
                         • 58

and Moon show that one .will be a mechanic or a
nurse. One may have success in business, or one will
be serving in the Navy, Port Trust, Harbour, Shipping,
Trade, Commerce, Cinema, Music, dance, breweries,
fishery, textile etc. [Some of" the combinations being
Sun, Moon and Mars] (in 6 or 10) : Navy—Salt; in 3.
Boiler Inspector.
     Sun, Moon and Mars in 7 : Breweries, drinks,
bar, beverage.
     Sun, Moon, Mercury: Textile, commerce, tele-
phone clerks..
     Sun, Moon, Mercury, Mars: Typists' in- such
■departments as above.
     Sun, Moon, Venus, in 2: -Music.
    Sun, Moon, Venus, in 6 or 10:        Shipping, Port
Trust, Harbour; Dairy farm.
     Sun, Moon, Venus, Jupiter in 5:     Cinema, Recep-
tionist, Customs.
     Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in 2, 6 or 10: Dance :
Sanitary Engineering.
^   Sun, Moon, Saturn and Venus in 2, 6 or 10:
FisGery, Petrol, Mine.
    Sun, Moon, Saturn : Conch shells,- mine.
    Sun, Moon, Saturn, Mars : Submarine, Tunnels.
   Sun, Moon,        Rahu:   Medical     department, in
Women's Jail, etc.
     Sun, 'Moon, Mercury, Rahu :       Contractor in the
Jail Department.
    Sun, Moon, Venus: Milk "dairy.
    Sun, Moon, Venus, Mars (Mars for beating) :
Pasteurised milk supply.
                          59

     Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn (Saturn for refrigera-
tion) : Ice cream supply, etc.
    Sun and Mars having connection with the houses
2, 6 or 10 will offer service in the military, police,
industry, surgery, or one may be riding and training
horses, wild animals,' or become a circus manager,
hunter, explorer etc.
    Sun and Mars: Defence Department, Military
      Surgeon.
    Sun, Mars and Jupiter (Jupiter for law) : . Police,
      Law and order. Police surgeon.
    Sun, Mars and Saturn (Saturn to end one's
      life): Military, to fight and inflict death.
    Sun, Mars and Saturn : Any of these very strong
      and in fiery signs, gives chances in their periods
      to go to the war front.
    Sun, Mars and Saturn in earthy signs : May give
      service in the headquarters during peace-time, if
      Jupiter aspects them.
    . Sun, Mars and Saturn in airy sign ; Air force,
         parachute, etc.
      Sun, Mars and Saturn in watery sign: Nauy,
       submarine.                 ^
  . Sun, Mars, Mercury : Military accounts, military
        engineer, typists, mechanical engineer, military
        contractor. Govt. Press, P.W.D., Post and
        Telegraph services, signallers etc.
      Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn: Stenographer.
      Sun, Mais, Venus: Military transport, car
        drivers, military. stores and food department,
        lady surgeon.
     Sun, Mars, Venus, Jupiter: Animal husbandry.
                      60

Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn: Slaughter house.
Sun, Mars,. Rahu in 6 or 10: Officer in Jail
  department.
Sun, Mars, Rabu, and Saturn in 2 and 12:          a
  prisoner.
Snn, Mars, Rabu and Sani in 6 or 10: He who
  executes and works in gallows.
Sun, Mars, Venus and Sani (Sani to kill): Mili-
  tary slaughter-house, Ground Engineer.
Sun, Mars, Venus and Jupiter (Jupiter to protect):
  Ambulance in Military or Police dept.
Sun and Mercury ; Literature, Science, banking,
  accountancy, commerce, engineering, industry,
  mathematics. Postal, ambassador, interpreter,
  editor, publicity, advertisement, teacher, sculp-
  ture, painting, books, periodicals, newspapers,
  reporters, correspondence, broker, auctioneer,
  telegraph, radio, typist, stenographer etc.
Sun, Mercury, Jupiter: Banking, Ambassador,
  editing,, publicity, advertisement, teacher, etc.
  Engineering administrative, Head Offices,
Sun, Mercury, Mars:        Govt Press, Auctioneer,
  Telegraph.
Sun, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter:       Books, Periodi-
  cals, Newspapers.
Sun, Mercury, Mars, Uranus: Radio,Teleprinter..
Sun, Mercury, Saturn: Shorthand writer. (Mars :
  machine—Saturn: to shorten-—Mercury : letter.)
Sun, Mercury, Mars, Saturn :      Mining Engineer,
  Stenographer.
Sun, Mercury, Venus: Transport Engineer ; Sculp-
  tor, Chemical Engineer.
                          61

    Sun, Mercury, Venus and Mars :         Architect in
      Government Departments.
    Sun, Mercury, Moon, Venus: Painter, Photo-
      grapher; Dairy farm —Water works Engineer —
      textile/rayon Engineer.
    Sun, Mercury, Jupiter : Reserve Bank, accounts,
      editor, publisher..
     Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Mars: Auditor, military
      audit, land mortgage bank accountant, accounts
      department; Shares department; Directorate of
      Estates.
    Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus: Income-tax
      Department; subordinates.; Civil Court Judges,
      All India Radio.
    Sun, Mercury, Jupiter j Venus and Mars: Income-
      tax Officers, Commissioners, Sessions Judge,
      I.A.S. Officers.
    Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Mars; Sales
      tax, commercial tax officers etc.
     Thus, it is possible to assess correctly the nature
of one's profession by considering the planets which
are, in any manner, .connected with houses 2, 6
or 10.
      N. B.—It is not necessary that all these planets
should be in close conjunction in either 2, 6 or 10 ;
e.g.. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Mars indicate
Income-tax officer. How? Sun stands for Government.
Mars for authority and for success . in competitive
examinations or to get selection grade; Jupiter is for
gain of money and position; Mercury for inspection of
accounts; and Venus is for assessment and judgment.
So, this combination indicates Income-tax officer. All
these planets need not be in one house. It is enough
if Sun is in Revati star and any one.of the rest is in
                            62

 Bbarani star. Thein Sun in Revati star has to give
 (1) its own results; (2) the result of the lord of the
 sign PISCES where Revati is, i.e. Jupiter ; and (3) that
of lord of the star, i.e. Mercury. If any other
planet is in Bharani, then the \planet has to offer
its results and those of the lord of the sign Aries
where Bharani is, i.e.,Mars, as well as the results of
the lord of Bharani star, i.e.,, Venus. Thus, Sun in
Revati and another planet owning 2 or 6 or 10 in
Bharani can offer Income-tax Officer's post.

       It is said that the combination of Sun, Mercury,
 and Mars denotes Typist in the Defence Department,
 Military Engineering, etc. as Sun shows security of
 service in the Government, Mercury for writing, Or
 Engineering, and. Mars for machinery or military. It
 is enough if Sun is in the 3fd and 4th padas, of
 Mrigaseerisha when it is under the influence of Mars,
lord of Mrigaseerisha, and Mercury, lord of Gemini,
where this half of Mrigaseerisha is. Also Sun may be
 in the first half of Chithra star when also Mars, lord of
the star and Mercury, lord of Virgo (Kanni) will
influence Sun.. Thus, the position of a planet in the_
zodiac gets the results of the planet modified by the
lord of the sign in which it is and also the lord of the
st^r which the planet occupies. Suppose there is a
bright light in a circular glass room. The room has'
12 window-panes and each is of a different colour. If
one walks outside the room in the circular verandah,
he will see that the colour of the light inside the room
gets changed as he passes through different coloured
window-panes. So he will note the same light in
12 different colours. Suppose the verandah is also
provided with glass panes and they are 27 in number.
Then when he goes round the verandah, he Will find
that the'colour of.the light inside the room is modified
first by the window panes of the room and then finally
                            64

 by the window panes provided for the verandah. Thus,
 the nature of the planet is modified by the lord of the
 sign in which it is posited, and the lord of the star
 occupied by the planet.
      Suppose one is born in Aquarius. If Sun occupies
 the star of the lord of 2 and 11, viz. Jupiter, one will
 come by a fortune. It is not necessary that one should
 have Sun conjoined with Jupiter. If Sun is in Punar-
 vasu, especially 4th quarter, or Visakha or Poorva-
 pathrapada, one will come by fortune during the
 combined period of Sun and Jupiter and not throughout
 his life-time.
      Journeys: You will have opportunities to make
 journey during day time. Generally, night travels will
 not be felished. It may be uncomfortable and
 occasionally unfortunate also during Sun periods.

       Who will be" your real friend? Those-who are
  born in Leo as ascendant, or on Sundays, or when
  Moon or Sun transits in Karthikai, or Uthram or
 Uthrashada stars, will be your good friends. When
  you run Sun's period and Mars sub-period, those born
 in the first quarter of Karthikai will be helpful.' If
 the period is that of Sun and Mercury, people born in
 Utbjram star will contribute to your success." Sun
 and Jupiter show Uthrashada first quarter. Sun's period
'and Venus sub-period indicate that people .born in
 Karthikai 2nd, 3rd and 4th pqdas or Poorvaphalguni
 stars will lend their assistance to you. /Sun and Saturn
 period, when they jointly operate, will indicate that
 people born in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th padas of
"Uthrashada will help you. If the sub-period is ruled
 by Kethu, natives born in Makham star will do good
 or evil to you dependtfig upon1 the nature of the sub-
 lord Ketu-Kethu's star in Sun's sign. If the sub-period
 belongs to Rahu, find out in which sign it is; and note
                            65

the lord of that sign; if the lord and Rahu have to
offer you beneficial results, people born in Rahu's stars
and the star of the lord of the sign in which Rahu was,
 will bestow on you desirable events in life. Thus,
 you will find how the change in the sub-lord, changes
 the person through whom you receive benefits. This
may be taken up for research. Note the car driver's
horoscope, how he changes his master as and'when the
 sub-period changes. It will be amazing to note that
 the lord of the dasa and . the lord of the sub-period of
 the car driver will invariably be the two ruling planets
•of the owner of the car.
     Business Partners: The partners may be of the same
age or even of differing ages. During Sun period,
never trust old people. They may make promises,
but will not be really helpful. You may look for favour
from superiors. In business, the Government officials
will be helpful. Select such people who are born in
Leo ascendant or on Sundays or on Karthikai, Uthram
of Uthrashada star days. Or the position of Sun in
your chart may be the ascendant of your partner: Or
the position of Sun in both the charts may be the same
or in 3 and 11 (sextile) or in 5 and 9 (trine) to each
other. Generally, whenever business is on a big scale
necessitating a decent outlay of capita], partnership in
business will be of a very common occurrence. Gain or
loss depends on one's own sub-period. If one attributes
the loss to his partner's misfortune and the gains to
his ability, astrology says that he is incorrect.
     Marriage and married life: Sun offers marriage
in its period, if it is connected with houses 2, 7 "or 11.
It may occupy any of these houses ; or it may be in the
constellation of the occupants of the lords of 2, 7 or
11; or it may be in the constellation of the Lords of 2,
7 or 11 or in any manner connected with them. Then
Sun will give the marriage in its period and in the sub-
                           66

period of that planet having connection with houses 2,
7 or 11, and forming good aspect with Sun.
      Good understanding among the couple is promised
if the Sun in one's horoscope is on the place of the
benefic or behefics in the other's chart. If the Sun were
to be on the place of.Mars in the partner's chart, irri-
tability and dispute are threatened. If it is on the
place of Venus, they will have happy and harmonious
life. If Saturn is in that position, cither silence or
repulsion is portended. .Moon in that position promises
peace and prosperity; Mercury in one, in the position
of Sun in the other, is also auspicious.
     Generally, people who remain unmarried for a
long number of years will get married at least during
the last sub-period in the Sun dasa which is governed
by Venus.
    Lucky colour:     Orange, saffron,    gold,; yellow.
    Lucky metal: . Gold.
    Lucky stone: Ruby, Onyx, Turquoise,
    Lucky number       1,4, 10, 13, 22/ 28, 31, 37 and
so On.
  c Lucky day: Sunday and those days when the
star is Karthikai or Uthram or Uthradam.
    Lucky time : When Leo rises in the East.
God who will offer you luck, peace and prosperity is.
" Suryaharayana".
    Stothram " Adhitya Hridhayam ".
     Lucky direction : East.
