Notice; advertisements & monthly forecast have been removed

         ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA
                       (FOUNDED : 1-4-1963)


        By Jyothisha Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


  VOL. 1.                 APRIL 1963                   No. 1.


                           CONTENTS

                                                       Page No..
   1-    Saidpet Astrologer or Mala Josier                    1
   2.    Foreword                                             4
   3.    What Next ?                                          7
  4.     Astrology an Occnlt Science                         12
  5.     History of Astrology
 ' 6.    Astrology—Its use and limitations                  27"
  7.     Karma and Destiny                                  32
  S.     Branches of Astrology
          (Medical, Meteorological, Judicial, Natal,
          Horary, Electional, Kabala, Kerala and
          Omens).                                           44
         Monthly Prediction (English)                       7L
         Monthly Prediction (Tamil)
              SAIDAPET ASTROLOGER
                                 or
                      MALA -JYOSIER

                P. S. RaMAN, m.A;, Member, m.a,r.i.

          ■^Like n^ny other cities in India, Madras also is not
       ■jvantingdn the number-of Astrologers. But if any
       astrologer were to be identified by; his. predictions, I
     "am sure, it ,will invariably fall on my Guru Jyothisha
        Pfayeena'. Sri K. S. Krishnamurthi Iyer, popularly
        hailed as the Saidapet Astrologer or Mala Jyosier. By
        bis erudite scholarship, deep understanding and keen
        insight,. coupl»d with five and thirty years of experience
        in Astrology, Sri K. S. Krishnamurthi Iyer proves a
      ■solace to many—to those worried about the results of
        their competitive examinations, to parents anxious for
        the' settlement of the marriage of their children, to
        businessmen whose minds are sharply tuned to the
        rise Snd fall Of the market, to the young constantly
        porideriiig over things tb'come, to the old who have an
        insatiable desire to' Know their own longevity, to
        farmers and punters- who calculate on the harvests of
        the season .:in short, to one and all, the chief consult-
:
  ''r ant, guide and minister is our Guru Sri K. S. Krishna-
     ..murthi Iyer.
         He has been the author of several astrological
     publications, notable amongst them being " Jyothidam
^^Vigyaname " Marriage and Married life " (Volumes I
   . -^ndll), " My fortune in the next five years" etc.
 i Besides, he is giving series of lectures in Astrology at
s.r.3 centres in Madras. Herein is imparted knowledge
    in Astrology to graduates, scholars, officials and even
                            2

professional Astrologers who constitute the bulk of his
students.
      Hailing from Tanjore, Sri Krishnamurthi Iyer had
his study of the rudiments and fundamentals in Astro-
logy even while he was a student. He is not a profes-
sional ; be is a pensioner : he has retired after 34 years
 of Service in the King Institute, Guindy. Five years
before retirement, he founded the Modern Astrological
Research Institute. He is the President and he has its
branch opened at Delhi. Many a lecture had been,
given in the midst of an august gathering, in the Rajya
Sabha Hall, Bharathiya Vidya Bbavan, L.Y.M.A.,
Y.M.C-A., Lion's club, Cosmopolitan club etc. As the
very name signifies, this Institute is dedicated to
research work in Astrology, with a view to establishing
by     concrete    proofs, some of the 'seemingly
empirical " theories. In this line, Sri Krishnamurthi Iyer
and his students are constantly endeavouring.
     A look at Sri Krishnamurthi Iyer, the lean and talf
gentleman, one really wonders at the vastness and extent,
of knowledge he carries with him. One is lost in
admiration at his explanations as to how the predic-
tions are arrived at, to people who are interested to-
know them. Predictions mainly based on guess are
never given out by him. Anything that is forecast has
a scientific background and is based on the rich
accumulated information stored by him, combined
with an articulate flow *of thought which is the unique
gift of Sri K. S. Krishnamurthi. He scrupulously
avoids the terms as "Likely", "Probably" etc.,
whenever he predicts.
    The trouble in the North, the tumbling down of
the prices of the shares in the market after the 15th.
of October 1962 (which appeared in a daily newspaper
at Delhi) were some of the events predicted by him.
                          3

even 18 montbs prior to the occurrences. His
intense devotion to Lord Uchista Maha Ganapathi
contributes greatly.to his grand success and uncanny
predictions.
     It might appear that it would be an arduous task
to master the subject of Astrology. But as in every
other sister-art, in Astrology also " Practice makes
Perfect" and it would be within 'the reach of every-
body to achieve a remarkable.Vamount of accuracy
within a period of 2 yearsj if sufficient care and
attention is given to the material that is offered by
Sri K. S. Krishnamurthi in his bookt in an easily
digestible and palatable form. I am confident and
I can reiterate the same.
     New ideas spring up from his fertile imaginative
mind, versatility gives shape to them and it is for us
to reap the rich harvest which his genius can confer
on us<
                    FOREWORD

     GOOD LUCK TO ALL OF US, GOOD LUCK
      It is a pleasant surprise to receive the manuscript
of a few issues of "ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA"
\vritten by. my esteemed Guru, Jyothisha Praveena,
Sri K. S. Krishnamurti to write a foreword.
     First, let me thank my Guru for having decided to
publish a magazine.' The students, of the Modern
Astrological Research Institute at Madras and at Delhi
were bringing pressure on him and now he has com-
menced to fulfil their desire. Praying God for long and
healthy life to my Guru, let me offer my'sincere
opinion.
       This magazine is brought out with a view to
  educate those who can't attend the course either in
  Madras or Delhi. It is more to the students in High
  Schools and Colleges, the young officials and such of
  those who are to retire in a few years, people in busi-
  ness, bankers, investors, speculators, sharebrokers etc.,
' so that they can learn astrology without any difficulty,
  attain mastery without any doubt, predict results with-
  out any mistake and enjoy life without any disappoint-
  ment.                    t.
      Sincere efforts are taken to explain this Science in
 such a simple language, that even a layman can under-
 stand it easily. Every attempt is made to explain and
 connect the principles of astrology with the present day
 science and to lead the reader gradually so that a care-
 ful study of it from the commencement would at
 once enable him to follow up the subject, without any
 external help. Special care has been bestowed to make
                            5

it as instructive as possible by citing a large number
of examples.
     The aim of the editor, my Guru, is that the
students, before finishing the college course, can be
qualified in their respective fields of specialisation as
Engineering, Auditing,' Medicine, Law etc., in addition
to Astrology. Officers after attaining adequate profici-
ency in Astrology can command respect in the office and
they will be liked,by one and all. The youngsters may
take this up seriously and' work'with enthusiasm to
popularise astrology. Pensioners'can have no greater
pleasure than to be of service to the"younger generation
in educating them in the subject of Astrology. I am
confident that this magazine will surely establish the
truth of this noble science. It is also possible to
create chairs to Astrologers . who will impart good
knowledge to high school and.'college students at least
during their leisure hours.
      Planets reveal that, for a few decades to come,
astrology will not be included in the regular curriculum,
but they portray that private schools and associations
will engage the intellectuals to coach up students in
large numbers. Religion is no bar to learning this
science and any intelligent person may be requested to
teach it, to whichever nation he or she may belong.
Varahamibira says that it is not a disqualification that
one is born in a particular caste. Yavanas were held in
great reverence in olden days even by Rishis. Only
ability and efficiency are to be taken into consideration
and able astrologers alone are to be respected. Such
genii and successful astrologers may volunteer and
lend their services to educate the people.
     In the near future, the reputation of this science
will spread from Kanyakumari to Himalayas to start
with and in due course from Pole to Pole. Astrology
                           6

deserves to live long and an astrologer deserves better
treatment. Let us work with the motto and desire to
be of service to those who need our guidance and solace
and continue with that ambition placing all our faith
in the Great Almighty.
     Let the All-pervading, the Omnipotent, .the Omni-
present, and the Omniscient guide us in our zeal, help
us in our endeavour, keep us ever cheerful and bless us
with grand success. May the antagonists also be con-
vinced and, be converted as votaries of Astrology.
    Good Liick to all of us; GOOD LUCK..



    Jyothisha Visharath Sri V. THIAGARAJAN, m.sc..
Professor of Applied Chemistry,
Thiagaraja Engineering College.
MADURAI.
                   WHAT NEXT?
      ASTROLOGY is to . guide one about what is to
<:9mc in the future without resorting to any guess or
Surmise. This science is intended to be told in crystal
clear manner anything and everything that is to
 happen. Therefore this astrological magazine follows
 the same principle and desires to mention'those which
-are to appear in the succeeding issues.
     The Editor has given us to understand that he has
 proposed to publish cogently articles on astronomy
-and astrology in about 32 to 48 pages a month;
 monthly predictions will cover about 16 pages in
English and 16 pages in Tamil and between 16 and 32
pages may be allotted for various articles from learned
scholars. What articles have been received from others
and in which monthly issue they will appear will be
published a month or two in advance. The topics that
will be explained by our Professor, the Editor of this
magazine, in the subsequent issues are given below:—
    1. The Earth : North Pole, South Pole, Equator,
Longitude, Latitude, International Date Line.
      2. The Heavens: Pole star. Celestial Equator,
Eight Ascension, Declination, Meridian, Equino-
 ctial points, Equinoxes, Ecliptic, Zodiac, Celestial
.Longitude, Celestial Latitude, Parallels.
     3.   How to locate Planets.
    4. The Zodiac : The Twelve Signs. Their Names
and Symbols. The Planets : Their Names and Symbols.
    5.    Constellations:   Nakshathras.
                            s

   • 6. The Signs and their rulers. Benefics and
Malefics.   Signs; Movable, Fixed, Common, Fire,
Earth, Air, Water; male and female, Kendhras and
Konas, succedents, . Cadent Houses, Northern and
Southern signs, Equinoctial signs.   Fruitful signs.
Barren signs. Mixed signs, Signs of short ascension.
Sign of long ascension; Bicorporal signs: Human
signs: Signs of Voice: Mute signs: Exaltation:
Dignity, Moolatrikona : Friends, Enemies.; Neutral
Temporary friends and temporary enemies.
     7. Different kinds of . time;      Apparent solar
time; Mean solar time ; Sidereal Time ; Standard time ^
Local Mean time; Conversion of Standard Time ta
Local Mean time ; Calculation of Sidereal at the time of
birth or of an event at any place on earth.
    8.   Epbemeris :   Motion: direct and retrograde.
    9.   Table of Houses:
    10. To find put the cusps of houses : To calculate
the exact position of planets for a particular.moment
of birth or of incident.
    11. To erect charts by Western or Sayana system.
Fortuna,- Equinox, Precession of Equinox. A table as
a ready reckoner for each year.
   12.   To erect maps by Nirayana system.
   13.   Navamsa and its use.
   14.   Rectification of Birth time.
   15. Relative disposition among two planets.
Between one Planet and Ascendant or Meridian or
Fortuna.
   16. Aspects: Western and Hindu.         The Orbs,
Guide to aspects. Translation of light, applying and
separating aspects : Refranation: Dexter and sinister :
                             9

Conjunction: Parallel: Square: Opposition: Sextile-
Trine etc.
   17. Udndasas:        Vimsodhari, Ashtodbari, Kala-
cbakra etc.
    18. Each Rasi; Each Planet: Mythology : Astro-
nomy; general features, characteristics, weakness,
disease, professions, inanimate objects; metals;
colour; direction; number; countries and towns,
indicated; political, economical, produce, etc.
   19.   12 Houses :    Their indications.
   20.   Planets in each sign.
   21.' Planets in each house.
    22. Aspects between one planet and the other.
Sun to Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc. Moon to
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc. Also aspect among
lords of each house.
   23.   Progression.
   24.   Transit, Western and Hindu.
   25.   Ashtaka Varga.
   26.   Shadbala.
   27.   Personality.
   28.   Longevity.
   29.   Health; Disease ; General constitution.
   30. Finance, Fortune, Self acquisition:. Worldly
possessions.
  31.    Brothers and sisters.
  32.    Short journeys, publications - agency.
  33.    Education.
  34.    Vehicle, conveyance.
                                10

     35.   Landed property: Building - Mother.
     36.   Speculation: Lottery, Races, Betting.
     37.   Servants: Pets ; Debts, Enmity.
    38. Marriage:          Married    Life: Lawful; Cross:
 Divorce.
     39.   Partner; Business ; Litigation.
     40.   Will: Legacy.
     41. Father: Religion; Philosophy; Higher Edu-
 cation; Competitive Examination ; Overseas: Foreign
 Travels.
     42. Profession: Honour: Backbiting: 111 repute.
     43. Friends: Hopes and Desires.
     44. Treachery: Imprisonment: Expenses: Hospi-
 talisation.
     45.   Horary Astrology; detailed.
     46.   Market forecasting.
     47.   Mundane astrology.
     48.   Medical astrology.
     49. Stellar astrology.
     50. Improved Methods of Prediction by the author
 ;aftermuchof research done in Modern Astrological
  Research Institute.
     51. Why Stellar Astrology is to be followed and
■ "Western aspects are to be "applied in all cases.
     52. The     correct     time    of   birth—rectification,
 pre-natal.
    53. Research done on Pre-natal Epoch.
    54. Which Panchanga is to be followed, Tbirk or
 "Vakya ? Which Siddhantha is to be adopted?
                           11

    55. Fortune on Cha'ndrasbtama day—How ■ to
•reconcile.
   56. Marriage, appointment, promotion, success
in competitive examinations during the periods of
Asbtama Sani and also during the seven and half years
Saturn. Explanation!
   57. When Jupiter transits in the 11th house,
money is lost.-. When it transits in the 12th, it is
regained. How ?.
   58- Expects a promotion on a particular day but
on that day his maid servant delivered a child and there
was no promotion. Why this alternative ? and similar
questions.
    59. Combinations of Planets       and   varieties of
professions.
     60. .Which Ayanamsa is correct? To establish it
"by illustration and convincing proofs.
     ' Any problem which the readers may suggest and
•any other subject as it appeals to the editor, will be
•published as separate articles. These will be useful to
 the students and scholars. If any reader wants to have
 any doubt cleared, he is welcome to write to the editor.
"Even if there is difference of opinion on ■ any matter,
 the editor invites such, so that he can try to convince
 the reader by explaining them more clearly with
■examples and illustrations. Therefore the editor craves
 indulgence of the readers for the short-comings if ahy,
 and solicits their favour of making any suggestion tbey
 may think proper, with a view to its being inserted in
 future issues.
                     Members,
       Modern Astrological Research Institute,
                      Madras.
   ASTROLOGY AN OCCULT SCIENCE

      Astrology is a noble science. It explains the
celestial phenomena and the corresponding terrestrial
events. The true meaning of astrology is the
"Message of the Stars". By using the salient princi-
ples of Astrology one can forecast events for the bene-
fit of all and as such, it is a useful science for interpret-
ing nature.
      ." Astronomy is excellent; but it must come
         Up into life to bave its full-value.
         And not remain there as Globes and Spaces "
                                                   —Emerson.

     The whole world is run according to a well-defined
plan. Nothing happens by - chance. Astrology does
not permit one to classify anything as an accident, as it
explains the cause and effect of events. The divine plan,
is well arranged and timed with amazing precision.
     Some say that astrology is an art. . Some others
reject it as an idle dream or an illusion. Still, others
may speak of astrology as though it were an.altogether
conteinptible superstition and contemplate with pity
those who believe in it. Some of. those who have no
material of other difficulties in life take pride in saying
that they have no faith in astrology and ridicule both,
the astrologer and the science. Probably they may fear
that they may lose their self-importance if they were
to recognize astrology. A few others say, under wrong
impression or with prejudiced ideas, that astrology is
not a science. These people would not have mastered
the data on which correct predictions are based. This
science explains clearly that such opponents of astro-
                            13

logy will have in their horoscopes evil aspect between
Mars and Uranus or between Mars and Mercury. These
planets, when afflicted, do not give quick grasp, good
memory and reproductive ability, and produce people
 who are either ignorant, arrogant, envious or are
always inclined to find fault with what they are not
able to understand. Pretending' to know everything,
they display their ignorance. The antagonists often
xjuote the opinions of a few learned men, who do not
-yiant to admit that it is a. useful science. Learning is
 mechanical acquirement of facts and gaining knowledge
 in any subject. But wisdom is not so. Astrology can
be correctly interpreted only by a genius endowed with
.divine grace.
      A great thebsophist, Mr. Chidambaram Iyer, says
that nothing can be more funny than to find young
 men, especially, taking up astrology, as their first
 subject of attack in their public utterances. It is a
■subject to which they pay little or no attention except
Tor purposes of ridicule.
      I" submit that the magazine is started to prove that
astrology is a science and that it can render very
useful. service to one and all, and create faith even in
;the sceptic.
      A knowledge about the history of astrology and
 the illustrious and eminent sages and savants who
practised astrology would give a better appreciation
-of the science itself..
         HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY

     The History of Astrology begins with Creation it-
self. Sage Garga says that the science was propounded
by the Creator Himself and that Brahma handed it
down to him at the time of creation. From Garga>.
other sages got it and it was spread all over. It appears
to be co-eval with that of the Earth.
     In western countries there is a certain belief that
Seth (3,769 B.C.) was the world's first astrologer. This,
can beinferred from the astrological books written later
by Arabic, Egyptian, Jewish and Persian writers. Wes-
terners believe that Seth was the first person to study
the Planets, their motions and their pathway. It is he
who divided the Zodiac into twelve equal parts, as he
found that the Sun ever follows a particular path in the
Heavens, year after year; and he also noticed that this
circular route of the Sun was spaced out by twelve
full moons. Full moon occurs once a month. There-
fore the Sun's path is divided into 12 equal parts called
' Mazzaroth ' which term we designate as ' Signs
     Around 2,600 years ago, the priests and the
shepherds of Chaldea took this- science for serious
study and developed it. Their period was called the
Golden Age of Astrology, because they connected the
movements of the planets with all kinds of events in
human life. Dr. Thompson says that the Akkadina.
and the Sumerians observed the heavens and heavenly
bodies and tried to note their courses. The Babyloni-
ans and the Egyptians attributed some influence over
the animate and inanimate objects on the earth. Astro-
logy was popular and it wielded great influence over
the rich, the priests, the princes and the kings.
                            15

 Maspero said that, in his time, the mistress of the world'
 was Astrology.
     Some are of the opinion that Astrology had its
origin in Chaldea from time immemorial. They suggest
that the very name Chaldean means ' astrologerThe
Pythagoreans further advanced the concepts of the
Chaldeans. They applied higher mathematics. Later,
astrology came into the hands of the Greeks. They
concentrated more on Natal Astrology, as they had a
deep-rooted religious nature and an enquiring mind.-
They always posed the questions: "Who am I? Why
am I born? What for, do I live? Why are there so
much of inequalities in life?" They had the answers
only through astrology.
     Many of the records of the early astrologers of
Nineveh and Babylon are found among the early tablets
in the British Museum. Some of their findings are
dated nearly 5,000 years ago.
     The Greeks were also enthusiastic in following
astrology. They erected the horoscopes for the time of '
birth and presaged the finance, family, fate, fortune,
and future of the individuals. One- of die Greek
horoscopes written in Papyrus about 2,000 years ago
is kept in the British Museum. The Chaldeans who
practised this art of Astrology were held in high esteem
even at the time of Alexander the Great.
      The Egyptians were equally interested in Astrology,
 which played an important role. They were also res-
 ponsible for shaping the future of the nation.       As
 can be seen from the monuments, the inscriptions and
-modern investigations, this science dates back to 5,000
B.C. The Pharaohs gave much respect to the astrologers
 of whom Babilus was the leader. He was always con-
 sulted and the duty of Babilus was to find out the
 charts of those who might • perchance gain power.
                           16

"become a rival and create trouble to the emperor.
Whenever Babilusforesaw any such native, he informed
the king, who put such people to death. Pharaohs had
faith in their astrologers. Often they were consulted
lb interpret the dreams of the king.
     In Persia, the kings honoured the astrologers for
their sound knowledge of this science. It is only
GJAMASP otherwise known as" AL HAKIM" (mean-
ing ' Learned'), an astrologer in Persian court who
precisely predicted the time of birth of the Prophets.
      The Saracens spread the Science in Spain in 711
 A.D. and the North Africans, the Moors, in 1,237,
-carried the science to Europe.
      Dr. Brewster admits that in China about 2,752 B.C.
 from the'days of King Fohi, they developed astronomy
-solely for studying astrology; and emperors were chosen
 according to the profound knowledge possessed by
 them in 'astrology. In 2,513 B.C., Cheuni was elected
.as the King in that manner.
     Whenever Alexander the Great went out, he took
with him the astronomer Calisthenis in all his campa-
igns. He spread the science in the East by giving
out some of the rational methods adopted there and
his visit to India had helped him to learn more and
develop it further in his country.
      Henry Cornelius Agrippa, born in 1486, was the
 astrologer to Francis I of France when he was 38
 years old. J«hn Dee was the favourite astrologer of
•Queen Elizabeth. Albu Mezar of Bulah was the pro-
 fessor of Mundane Astrology at Bagdad. The Caliph
 Maramonarrasheed translated many ancient astrologi-
 cal works into Arabic.
    Thus, every nation is to be crediied with the
knowledge of this Science. It is advisable to learn the
                                  17

   experiences and findings of research workers who had
   contributed to the technique of correct prediction.
          Let me mention the names of a few foreigners who
     have contributed to the development of this Science.
     They were not only scholars in Astrology but were
     renowned and reputed Astronomers, Historians, Philo-
     sophers, Physicians and Poets.
    Astronomers: Ptolemy (67 A.Dj Galileo            Newton
                   Pythagoras            Witchel •   Brahc 1546
                   Kepler (27-12-1571) Copernicus    Flamstcad
    Astrologers : Alan Leo (2-11-1862) Sepharial     Dr. W. J. Simmo-
                                                       nite
                  Llewellyn              Cornelius   Hayden
                  George                 Agrippa
                  Max Heindel           Carter'      Parker
                  Morirus               Maurice      W. Franland
                   Siblcy                Wemyss      Raphail
                  Regitraantarus         W. Lily     Burtan
                  John Dee               Culpcter    Junctinus
                  Eliashomole            Borehatn    Black well
                  Robson                 Zadkie III' Newton
   Historians Diodorus                   Coley       Padwal
                  Maximus               Joscphus     Plutarch
                                         Suidas      Livy
                  Camden               Poiybius      Mela
                  Heroditus
£ Philosophers Lilly                    Macrobius    Aristote
                  Bacon                 Thalcs       Pliny
                  Anasagoros            Moore        Tibertus
                  Ptolemy              Zenoorates    Mcton
fc •
—Physicians       Hypocrates           Foster        Dodneus
                  AvL'irra                           CardtT'-s
                  C Jien               -■um: Dec     Gilbert
                  fanridGe             Ajr/.r-pa     Mo .•'r.ey
                  Cil J'- '
                            18

Poets        Hypocratcs       Foster         Dodoneus
             Avicenna         Mathiolus      Carda.nus
             Galen            John Dee       Gilbert
             Partridge        Agrippa        Starkcy
     In India, it is said that it was the sage Garga
who handed down the Science to his disciples. Further,,
there are recorded evidences that Yavanas .were very
learned astrologers and that they lived many centuries
before Vafahamihira, who admired, in his text books,,
the progress made by the Yavanas in this Science.
Yavanas have contributed much for the development
of this Scjence in India. There are records to show
that around 3,102 B.C. the Tirvalore Tables were used
solely for astrological purposes.
    The following list furnishes the names of a few
renowned Indian scholars who expounded, explained
and interpreted this Science ,* Garga; Viddha Garga ~
Asita; Aryabhatta ; Bhrigu; Brihaspathi; Badarayana;
Baradwaja; Bhadalla Devaswami; Devala; Dravyavar-
dhana; Gafutman Jeevasaman; Kapila; Kanabuk ;
Kashyappa ; Latacharya ; Manu ; Manitha; Maya;
Parasara ; Panlisa Pitamaha-Romaka;        Rishiputa ;
Sidhasena ; Simhacharya; Saka; Sapatharishi; Saras-
watha; Savitra; Satyacharya; Sidhasena; Yavana-
chara ; Varahamihira; Bathothpala; Prithyuyasas;
Vaidyanatba Dikshithar; and many others.
     Thus it can be seen that astrology was held in
great esteem in all ages by the leaders in other
sciences also.
       As years passed by, for various reasons this science,-
• which is to live long, and which - will surely live long^
  has lost some of its charms. But science remains ever
  a science. In every age, a particular science alone11
  receives much attention and is developed, even thougbf.
  every science has its own innate value and is useful to
                           19

us. No country had ever passed quiet without any
advancement in any branch of science. So in
every age any one science may be very popular,
whereas the other sciences may be ignored, though not
totally forgotten. It is not unlikely that there are
people even now whose names would come as a great
surprise to all; there will be very earnest and loyal
students of astrology who will popularise astrology.
     This magazine is published with the sincere desire
that Astrology should be made popular. Research has
to be done regularly and systematically. There
should be fool-proof methods to read accurate
results. Students of astrology with half-baked know-
ledge should be educated and imparted higher know-
ledge. Their doubts should be cleared. Those who
bring ridicule to this noble science should be silenced
by producing able astrologers who will give correct
knowledge to them. It is only with correct and clear
understanding of the subject one can predict astoundin-
gly accurate results, and establish that the noble legacy,
astrology, given to us by our forefathers, is indeed a
science which is as accurate as any other science. The
present position of astrology, in the hands of a
number of astrologers, is really deplorable. The excuse
may We that there is no proper education to them and
hence the result is unsatisfactory. Even when watches
are manufactured by any one concern, no two watches
agree. If they are manufactured by many, one can
guess, how they will We. Similarly, astrologers and a few
other professionals usually offer- different opinions,
confusing the already depressed consultant. So coach-
ing up of students is absolutely necessary to have the
fame school of thought.
    In many other countries, astrology is included in
the curriculum. It is understood that, in American
University, Astrology is included. Also, there are
                           20

schools of Astrology in Germany, Switzerland, Holland
and France. Scientific circles there, give serious
attention to it. Astrologers are today thankful to the
Astrological Research Association of New York which
publish quarterly (Editor : Charles Jayne), and all
Research Scholars are allowed to contribute their
articles. Also Dr. B. V. Raman, Bangalore, deserves the
Blessings of God to live long and continue to contri-
bute for the progress of Astrology. At present in
India, Astrology is like a T.B. patient left uncared for,
especially by those who alone can cure. It is handled
by a few. Of them, some arc avaricious, some others
have commercialised it by fortune-telling without
the desire to maintain the prestige and utility of
astrology. Some alone sacrifice everything for this noble
science. The rash and worthless predictions of a few
astrologers have debased astrology and these are
received with sarcastic smile only to be dismissed.
      Some people feel sorry that they consulted " Nadis "
written on palmyra leaves by the ancient Rishis of India.
It is a fact that the events in the lives of many persons
born and yet to be bom are found written already by
Hindu genius. People who have consulted add that
they are dumbfounded with the surprisingly accurate
predictions about the past events, but feel upset when
the future events fail miserably. This is a common
complaint. Thousands of years ago, Rishis wrote these
wonderful predictions. When they can be very correct
in all the predictions from the time of birth of the
native till the date of consultation, why they should
fail in their future predictions cannot be explained. 1
also agree with those who say that this needs proper
investigation because there are large number of genuine
Nadis and it is likely that a few may be unauthentic
ones. The solution can be found easily if the palm
leaves are handed over to the consultants, by
the owners, who hold the leaves and read out the
                            21

results, as if from them. I am confident that if the palm
leaves are given to the querist and if the reading of the
past and present should agree correctly, the future must
be also invariably correct when alone the Nadi can claim
to be one of the genuine documents. Our sages can
never fail in their predictions and they have never failed:
     It is not unlikely that a few readers of the palm
leaves gain enough knowledge and experience in repeat-
ing verses, composed by themselves in no time. A few
of them, when they read the past events, have to
read very strictly the material as is found in the leaves,
because the past has to be correct. Then only, the
consultant will hear him further. But when the future
is to be read, it is open to doubt as to whether
he reads only those materials found on the leaves or he
himself coins verses suiting to the taste of the querist.
In one case, a consultant and his friend caught hold of
such a fraud, the Nadi reader, redhanded, because he
had Mahabaratham on hand and read his life by having
those leaves on hand, looking at them and turning over
page after pages every 5 minutes.. It is a pity that
the existence of a very few of such people bring ridicule
to this amazing Nadi.
      Another investigation is also to be made to find
 out whether the documents are genuine. There is the
 doubt whether the authors, i.e., the sages, knew all
 languages including Tamil, etc., in South India, as they
 lived in the North having Sanskrit as the Mother tongue
 and Nadis are found in all languages. Whatever it is,
 there are records now, to prove, that astrology was
 practised by many people, thousands of years ago, who
-could predict even the birth time of a native in 20th
 century, the place of his birth, names of his parents,
 occupations, etc., and the events in his life: marriage,
 profession, foreign journey, property, conveyance, etc.
 They bad such profound knowledge. Now it has
                            22

deteriorated to a very great extent, like a multi-millio-
naire having a few hundreds in the bank. It is more or
less in a pitiable condition in India.
    In fact, there is probably not one science which, is
not properly understood, which so many pretend to
know, and on which so many are prepared to express
an opinion as in the case of astrology.
     Westerners are always research-minded. If they
find any truth in any statement and if they are convin-
ced, they study it further, and develop it. It may be
that there are failures. Yet they consider how it is
possible to predict correctly in some cases, and why
in other cases there is failure ; and to find out the truth,
they make research till something satisfactory is
discovered.
      Babylonians were observing the stars for more than
4,73,000 years. So says Didorous in his writings in 30
B.C. and they still continue to observe, record and
further improve their knowledge in Astronomy which is
the complement of the other science, Astrology. I have,
so far, been briefly stating the fate of astrology in
India and in other countries from the time of Creation
till today.
     Astrology today is incomplete and needs to be
vastly supplemented. No one is in possession of all the
findings of our sages; nor are we blessed with such a
Guru who can impart correct scientific knowledge to
us. Whatever we may have today is only a part of what
they have left behind. A subject taught by a Professor
will be complete. We are not fortunate to have such
an advantage in our life-time. So with what little litera-
ture we possess, we have to understand the fundamen-
tal principles and then, by regular and strenuous work,
develop it.
                            23

     Another disadvantage is that in India there are
many languages and the subjects are written mostly in
verses. The first difficulty is to translate them
correctly into the respective languages and get them
printed. Hence, all the books that are printed in
Tamil, are not found in Gujarati, Marathi, Hindi,
Telugu, Kannada or Malayalam.         Some books in
Gujarathi are not available in Tamil; nor are they
heard of by Tamilians.
      In each language, only a few.books are produced.
Many are left out due to various reasons, the main one
being the cost of printing and the lack of satisfactory
encouragement from any source. Hence the ancient
literature available in each place is incomplete like a
torn-out Dictionary. It is a part of the whole. This is
one of the main reasons why we feel the need to have
n study circle and do research.
        It is our view that one should know the principles
     astrology by studying all the available books written
  by various authors, both Hindu and Western. We have
  to collect horoscopes of different people including
 .twins, born at different times but in.the same Latitude
  and Longitude, births in the same place at the same
  time, and births in different places having similar
  charts. They have to get particulars of actual facts
  from them, the nature of events that occurred, and the
  time of such events. Every method of prediction is to
  be properly applied in order to see which method is
 satisfactory in explaining the events in a precise and
 •correct manner. If certain methods appear to offer
  diametrically opposite results, the astrologer gets an
■ opportunity to do more research with the material
  available and find out the inner truth of astrology,
  bring in amendments, and suggest alterations to the
 original rules or supplement them by the findings which
  -will.prove to be correct, when applied to them and
                           24

 other similar cases. Thus many research workers and!
publishers have to co-operate, and publish in the
present common language English, or in all languages
in India so that we can do real service to the public at
large.
      When we hear complaints from astrological-minded
people, we find that they do not ridicule the science of
astrology but only those astrologers whom they con-
sulted. The main reason for the failure of most of the
astrologers is due to the defects in their method of
intrepretation and their incapacity to satisfy the quali-
fications prescribed by Varahamihira-
        Advice to astrologer and administrator
      The Sage says: " An astrologer should come
 from a n«ble family, should be good to look at,
 modest in temperament, true, impartial, and with good
 physique. He has to be active and courageous. He
 should be clear in his statement, witty, sincere and
 free from vices. He should have no stage-fright. He
 should worship Devas; observe fast and penance mr
 and must be conversant with astronomy and astrology.
 In the astronomical science, there are five schools of
 thought in India: (1) Paulisa, (2) Romaka Siddhanta,
 (3) Vasisbtba, (4) Saura and (5) Paitamaha. The;
 astrologer should be thorough with all the Siddhantas.
 He must be able to understand the objections and
 points of differences". He assures that when an
 astrologer has thoroughly understood the mathematical
 portion and has acquired the sound principles of
 astrology, his predictions and teachings will never
fail.
     He asks "How could one who has not understood
the spirit of the Sastras, be called an astrologer ?" and
adds that be is only a fool whose interpretation is just
opposite to the principles expounded by our sages and
                           25

 commits mistakes in his calculations. Varahamihira
 admits ,{It is easy for anybody to cross a sea if the
 breeze is favourable. But it is not possible for a
 person, who is not a sage, to reach the other shore of
 the ocean of astrology. "
      Varahamihira opines that even sages in forests,
 free from domestic worry, pride and prejudice^
 welcome the astrologer and without hesitation take
 interest in astrology when they, by chance, meet any
 wise astrologer.
     He advises the Kings that just as the night does
not shine without a lamp and the sky without the Sun,
so also the King cannot uniformly have a smooth life.
He warns that the Kings will have pitfalls even like a
blind pedestrian, if he has no astrologer to guide him.
properly, well in advance.
     Varahamihira reiterates thust     "Therefore a
King, who desires to maintain fame and enjoy an
all-round success, must engage the services of a few
leading astrologers who are not only versatile but also
clever, well-versed and skilled in this scienee, of
prognostication".
      He turns to the people of the nation and goes to
the extent of saying, "one who is longing for peace
and prosperity should avoid living in a place where no
astrologer is available" even as Owaiyar said " Don't
live in a place where there is no temple ".
       Varahamihira fears that a King who does not
^patronise the astrologers, who satisfy these qualifica-
  tions, will surely come to grief and will be denied
: mental solace.
      Varahamihira encourages and cheers up such
•astrologers saying that no man or woman who studies
                           26

 the science of astrology and divines the course of
-destiny will be seen in Hell. In this world, by Hell we
 mean the worry, anxiety, disharmony, depression,
 disappointment and no ray of hope for redemption.
 After death none knows what Hell is. It may be again
 a rebirth to suffer further. Thus astrology does
•contribute beneficial effects to one and all including
 the astrologer; in whichever caste or creed the
astrologer may be born, it does not matter, he is
 honoured.
     Varahamihira says that the Yavanas were of low
birth. When astrology had come to stay with them,
they were adored.
       Even now, if astrologers of this standard were
.available, they will be honoured as astrologers, and
 they can gain much influence and render real assistance
 to all those who approach them even as a river in
•spate can quench the thirst of the human beings,
animals, birds, aquatics, plants, trees, etc. But a quack
 is like a deep and dangerous river putting an end to the
life of one by wetting the bank, dragging him to the
depth, immersing him to the bottom, keeping him there
itself for some time, and finally lifting him up to
float, dead.
        ASTROLOGY—ITS USE AND
                   LIMITATIONS

    Astrology is a highly respected science ; no other
method of divination is worthy of mention.
     If life's journey can be compared to that of
crossing a river, the astrologer can be compared to an
experienced boatman. Let us take the experience of
one who is crossing a river. When one crosses the
river by wading, he finds that the depth of water is
increasing. At one stage, when he realises that the
current is too strong,- he is afraid and unnerved.
     Luckily, for him, a boatman is sighted. He calls
the boatman and asks, "Sir, can you kindly tell me
whether the river is getting deeper and I have to
struggle further, of will it be less deep hereafter, so
that I can cross the river without fear ? "
     The boatman who possesses sufficient knowledge
replies, " There is no need for fear- You have taken
this route (which- is your fate). The depth will
increase as you proceed only for a short distance.
Then fortunately for you, you will meet with a rocky
strata where the water will be shallow and thereafter
there is no need for anxiety. So, you may carry on."
      The traveller gets courage to cross with confidence
even the'deeper course. Is he not free from anxiety
from the moment the boatman gives him the correct
knowledge which the passenger does not possess; The
boatman does not give him a lift to cross the river by
taking him in his boat. He only gives him the know-
ledge, whereby he gains mental strength. Similarly,
the astrologer by his prediction can give the knowledge
•of the dark future.
                            28

     Suppose one complains to the astrologer: " I
can't understand why God does not help me to get
married. I am 37. I am worried. I doubt whether
God who created me has completely forgotten my
existence. Why do I continue to live alone, I don't
know."
     The astrologer replies, " Sir, you are destined to
marry only at the age. of 38. Please wait; you will
have your turn only then. However much you try, you
can't get married earlier. Saturn delays it till you get
dejected."
     "Thanks very much. At least you have offered mental
solace to me," he says and proceeds on his course.
    The Astrologer has given only mental strength.
He has not relieved him of his worry by offering a girl.
     Another may come and say, " Sir, the pressure from
Bank and bankers is unbearable. Such thoughts, as to
why I should not commit suicide and put an end* to this
trouble, always Hash in my mind. Whatdo you find in-
my horoscope? Is there any ray of hope to be free
from these worries?"
     The astrologer says : "However much you try,
you can't clear the loans for a yiear to come. The
bankers will be pressing-you." You will somehow
manage to give excuses. Days will pass on ; next year
you will be alright. Your finance will improve so much
that you will be able even to lend assistance to others.
You may not believe me now. At that time, you
will remember astrology."
     No doubt, the querist feels as though he has
cleared the loan. (No astrologer will give a cheque
and give relief, even if the querist, in his confused state
of .mind mentioned that suicide would solve his
problem easily.)
                            29

      Thus interpreted in all correctness, a knowledge of
astrology does afford mental strength to the feeble and
 weak-minded, solace to the depressed, peace to the
anxious and worried, and steadiness to those who are
wavering and vacillating in mind. It is a -common
•experience that when troubles come, they come in
 battalions and the afflicted person gets solace from this
 knowledge that the time is not far off when his or her
troubles would cease to exist. A full-Hedged astrologer,
capable of handling the subject with meticulous care,
 helps in no small measure to dispel the fears in the
querist's mind and braces him up to face the future
with confidence and hope. The astrologer helps one
 to have a glimpse of the unknown future; the know-
ledge of Destiny in store for one, stands one in good
stead in surmounting difficulties that present them-
selves. This early knowledge renders it possible for
one to reconcile himself to the situation- one finds
himself in, and any severe disappointment is unlikely
since one is briefed as to when one can cherish hopes
 and the extent one can do so.              When Dame
 Fortune smiles and the world appears to be full of
 roses, few have any use for the science or for the say-
 ing " Man proposes and God disposes." With the
frowning of fortune, egoism mellows down, and becomes
subdued. The knowledge gained through the Science
 helps one to be level-headed under any circumstances
 whether affluent or adverse.

       The knowledge of thefuturepromptsone to render
"help to those who are in need, banish evil thoughts
 from the mind and make efforts to lead a simple,
   onest and pious life. The 'saying " Do y ourduty with
 sincerity and leave the result to God" holds out a more
 forceful appeal. Astrology proves that success or
  failure depends on our previous Karma ; sufferings are
 .due to Sins committed previously and this thought
             KARMA AND DESTINY

      The whole world is a huge theatre. The cinema
of life goes on for ever. Every individual is an actor.
The past, the present, and the future are already fixed
in the roll of the films. The future will be shown in
the same order without any alteration, and we enjoy
or suffer as time passes on without any modification.
The roll of film already taken is according to the
Karma done by us in the previous birth and the story
is the result in this birth and it cannot be changed.

    Karma is a Sanskrit word. " Kri " means ' action '
or 'deed'. Any mental or physical action is called
Karma. Every action produces its reaction or result
which is known as Karma. Thus Karma includes both
the action and the result governed by the irresistible
law of " Causation."

      So under the law of Karma, there is nothing as
.chance or accident.       The so-called chances and
 accidents are in reality the products of some definite
 causes which we may not be aware of. That which
 appears to be accidental or providential to a non-
 astrological mind is a natural and inevitable incident to
 an astrologer. Hence, chances, luck or misfortune are
 governed absolutely by theTaw of Causation or Karma.
■God is neither partial nor unjust, and everything
 happens according to one's own action in the previous
 birth. Man is completely a puppet in the hands of.:
 certain higher agencies. Karma and re-incarnation are
 like a seed growing into a tree which bears fruits,
 yielding seeds which in turn produce more trees. The
 seed is the Karma. The growth of the tree is the life.
                             33

         As is the seed, so will be the plant that springs
  ■out of it.
         If one sows paddy, one cannot get wheat. When
   one sows orange, one cannot get apple.         Everyone
   creates his own destiny. One should realise that, it is
   because of his own Karma, he suffers. The doctrine
  of Karma alone explains and reconciles man to the
 -terrible and apparent injustice of life. This knowledge
   prevents him from cursing life or fellow beings or
  •God. Only the divine doctrine of Karma can explain
   why people suffer, although they might not have done
 ■anything wrong in this life, and they may complain
- that the stars are bad and that they do not deserve any
 kind of trouble. Most of us believe that the Planets
 •do not cause luck or ill luck. They only indicate the
   trend of events in our life. The cause is our Karma.
   It fructifies by the will of God. Withoui our previous
 Karma, God who loves all, who is just and impartial,
  will not give different results to the people who are His
 children, or cause troubles to them. You can compare
  God to rain water which is pure. Rain water enables
   the seeds to sprout and grow. But some alone thrive,
 and some die out. This is due to the inherent potency
 ■of the seeds. Astrology explains what Karma one
 should have done in the previous birth and what he
 should experience in this birth and when.
      A surveyor can say that the rain in Mercara will
 take the course of the nver Cauvery and that in Rishi-
 kesh will take the course of the Ganges. These courses
are earmarked. So also, astrology can offer predictions
 and also menlion who will try to mitigate the afflic-
jtions or augment one's luck and who will not make any
attempt at all. Every event will take him by surprise.
      Destiny can be predicted by an astrologer. The
belief that one can modify or nullify the results of
Destiny by exercising his will is not correct.
                           34

      Natal astrology as proponnded by the ancient sages
is a convincing science, havingits foundations on Karma
theory ; it should be possible for the astrologer who
interprets it, to read out from the chart, the circums-
tances under which one is placed, his normal expecta-
tions, whether one will make attempts to hoodwink
destiny and ultimately the nature of the result and
the time of the event. It is only when the knowledge
of astrology gained by one is limited and the interpreter
is not fully aware of Karma theory, he gives importance-
to self-will and offers advice; he later understands that
the native followed his suggestions and ultimately he
enjoyed desirable results. He attributes all these to-
self-will. But he does not realise that what he predicted
was incomplete. He has not properly understood the
present, the circumstances under which one will be
 placed, what attempts one will make to alter it by
exercising one's will and the ultimate result. Actually
 everything is found in the horoscope. Attributing to
self-will is nothing but attachment of importance to
 one's will and one's own self. Astrology clearly shows-.'
 that man is postulated as the subject of a certain
 destiny and human endeavour as the fulfilling of fate.
      It may be said, more as a compromise, that man ■
is both a slave of the effects of his past deeds and is a
free agent as regards his deeds with are in no way
directed to thwart, arrest, alter or in any way
modify or remould the effects of his past Karma. The
past, the present and the Tuture are all recorded as
explained previously in the cine-film. The stars and
the planets in their course denote our destinies, not
only those fulfilled in the past but also those lying,
 stored up for us in the future.
    Able astrologers who have specialised in any
branch of the science can bol<H^ declare an event
without any doubt and can go to the extent of taking.
                           35

a challenge that a particular result must happen,
mentioning also the time of the event. The following few
remarkable examples will convince the readers.
     (i) King Vikraraathithya had many astrologers in
his court. Of them, Mihira was an intellectual giant
and the most renowned.       He was admired and held
in great reverence, not only by Vikramathithya but
also by his colleagues and the general public. The
Kinghada son- Mihira cast the horoscope of the Prince.
Other astrologers also prepared the boy's horoscope
using different systems of calculation—Nirayana, Drik
Ganitha, etc. Kalidasa and Vararuchi were in favour
of the author of Panchasiddantika and hence followed
Siddhanta or Nirayana.
     Whichever system others followed," all of them
gave their opinion that the prince would have an
anxious time at his age of 18. On the nature of the
danger and the cause of death of the Prince, they were
not unanimous. Others were of the opinion that this
prince might lose his life due to the injuries inflicted by
an animal while hunting. But the most learned and wise
Varahamihira who enjoyed the blessing of Lord Adhitya,
and had Divya Drishti and Vaksiddhi predicted clearly
and boldly that the prince would be killed by
a Varaha, i.e., a boar at a particular hour on a
particular date.
       He also said that no human remedies could avert
  the danger and save him from the jaws of death and
■ that this unpleasant incident could not be altered. He
  said " AVASYAM ANUBOKTHAVYAM KRITHAM
 .'KARMA SUBHASUBHAM", that the prince could
  not survive even if all the precautions were taken.
      Years passed. The prince was maintaining robust
'health. His surroundfngs were well guarded even
 some months prior to the eventful day. On the morr
                            36

ning of the fateful day, the King held a Durbar. A huge
 crowd was anxiously awaiting. The King requested
 Varahamihira to verify his calculations and confirm
whether the fateful hour would be the same 5.00 P.M.
on that day as predicted previously. All had their own
doubts, because every precaution was taken by the King.
No wild boar or wild animal could have any chance of
gaining access to the Prince's palace which was very well
protected by' a huge army of vigilant warriors. The
Prince was asked to take his seat in the seventh floor, and
all the stair-cases were fully guarded. The King was
confident that his son was safe. So he asked Varaha-
mihira how could his son die from injuries inflicted by a
boar, when none would be allowed into the palace and
especially when no animal could enter at all. He again
requested him to reconsider deeply about his original
prediction. The King also declared that he would
award the Emblem of our Royal Title " Varaha " to
Mihira, if the prediction would prove to be' true,
because the King wanted to honour this science.
     Some minutes passed. Absolute silence prevailed.
The whole crowd was eagerly observing Mihira to hear
his verdict.
     Varahamihira said that he was devoted to Sun God
and he is blessed with Vak Siddbi. No mistakes
could be committed. Death from the injuries inflicted
by a boar was predicted from the Prince's horoscope
without any shadow ofi doubt. That was the penalty
announced by the Planets in the chart, according to
the Karma done by the Prince in his previous birth. He
repeated that the results of the past cruel Karma speak
out through the planetary positions at the time of birth.
     Therefore one should be prepared for the worst in
spite of all possible efforts made to hoodwink
Destiny.
    People, who gathered there, were confident that
nothing could happen in such a strictly guarded palace.
     At frequent intervals a warrior was asked to
give information about the Prince's health. Reports
that he was hale and healthy were received regularly.
At 5 P.M. one warrior reported that the Prince was
alright and the place was peaceful.          Sometime
later another soldier brought the same news. But
Varahamihira did not agree. He calmly said to the
King that the Prince had died at the stipulated time
and it would be advisable'if they would verify. The
King kept quiet. Another soldier, after some time,
came to the assembly and told that the place was calm
and there was no disturbance at all.
     The King began to doubt the prediction and again
said to Mihira whether there could be any mistake in
his calculation. . Mihira reiterated that he was dead at
the moment he predicted. He further mentioned boldly
that the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood.
Probably the watchmen and the companions might not
have noticed it. He suggested and persuaded the King
to go and see for himself. The King with some impor-
tant officers went up the stairs, one after another. The
King reached the 7th floor. The companions of the
prince were deeply absorbed in playing games and did
not notice the arrival of the King. On enquiry the
King understood that the Prince had been playing
with them all along, and that only a little while ago,
he had gone out to the adjacent open terrace.
      All quickly stepped into the open terrace. Oh
God! What a horror! To their great grief, the
Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood. They found
that his body was injured by the iron claw of an
artificial boar. Thus God's will, according to the
Karma of the Prince, fructified, as indicated by the
                                 38

planets, without being averted by the efforts of the King
and his subjects. Therefore all events in our life are
actually beyond our control and we have to submit
ourselves quietly and suffer the consequences of our
previous Karma.
     [When the palace was constructed, the architect erected a flag
staff and fixed an artificial boar made of iron and mortar at the top
'of the palace even as all the towers in his kingdom had this Royal
Emblem. To none, it struck that this artificial Boar might be the
cause of the death.
     The Prince just before 5-00 P.M. felt uneasy. He went to the
open terrace to have fresh air. Exactly at 5-00 P.M. a strong wind
broke the post into two and the Boar fell down. It fell straight on
the chest of the Prince. The injury was so deep that the terrible
loss of blood resulted in his immediate collapse.]
      (ii) The prediction of the Soothsayer given to
Julius Caesar warning him that on 15th March there
 was danger to his life as Ides of March were there,
proved to be correct. Julius Caesar by staying at
home could have avoided it. But this evil incident,
which is to happen, induced Brutus to persuade
Caeser and take him to the Senate. God gave one
more chance to Caesar to pay respect to the pre-
diction. On the way, Caesar again met the .
Soothsayer who previously predicted the danger.
Caeser said to him, "Ides of March are come," i.e.,
J5th of March was on and the prediction did not come
true. The Soothsayer calmly, and with conSdence
replied " Ay! Caesar but, not gone", i.e., 15th March
was not yet over. Actually in a few hours, Caeser was ,
killed by Brutus and the end of Caesar could not be
prevented by anybody's will or action; stars give :
correct indication to correct the non-believers.
       " Whosoever may be adopted to any
       Particular event or pursuit will
       Assuredly have the Star inrft'eaiivs
       Thereof very potent in his nativity **           —Ptolemy. -
                                                    >
                               39

      (iii) The Emperor Pareekshit went to the forest
and was tired after hunting. He was feeling very thirsty.
He got into Angiresh Rishi's ashramam. He was not
^honoured and attended to immediately by the Sage. He
 lost his temper. He took the dead skin of a snake,
 kept it round the neck of the Rishi and returned home.
 This was found out by the Rishi's son a little later.
 The boy cursed—rather predicted—that the person
who cdmraitted this folly would die on the seventh day
Ijy snake bite. The King came to know of this curse.
 He tried to avoid it. Prayers to Lord Krishna, spend-
ing all the hours of the day by hearing fiagavatham
alone, shifting his place of residence and taking all
•care, could not help him to outlive the time predicted.
Dakshan, the King of the Snakes, bit him and thus
ended the life of the Emperor Pareekshit as told by the
son of the sage.

      Here is an explanation for astrological principle
 that, whenever Saturn and Kethu conjoin, there is evil.
 (Saturn stands for "Mbuni" or Rishi, and Kethu
-Stands for the Poisonous snake.)
    This example is given to' show that even after
-knowing the nature and time of the event, however
mighty one may be, he could not alter it.
       "Whatever betides, by Destiny it is done ;
       And better bear like men than vainly seek
       to shun."      '                                 —Dryden
      There is a catalogue of recent instances predicted
•accurately by a present astrologer. Those desirous to
 verify can take from ths *editor of this magazine the
address of the astrologer and the party and verify if
 necessary. A few of them are given for the present:
<a) luck; (b) longevity; (c) accident; (d) marriage;
i{e) incapability to go against destiny.
                           40

      (1) The astrologer predicted that a native would'
 gain on 8-5-1955 a lump sum for a very small stake in-
races. The native never used to go to the races. He was-
well off, highly placed, and never speculative. At the-
time, when prediction was offered, the astrologer had
his own doubts whether the gains without pains would
be only through races because the native does not go to
races. Yet on 8-5-1955, the officer was persuaded by
his friend who had no knowledge about this prediction
and was taken by him. The officer was witnessing and
enjoying the races all the time. He who took him,,
without informing the officer, purchased a few sweep
tickets and gave one to the officer who reluctantly
accepted it and paid its value Rs. 2/-. The event was
over. Can you guess what happened? He who pur-
chased the ticket did not gain. But this officer got the
first prize of Rs. 4,200/-
     (2) A well-known Physician of Madras was ilf
and the medical experts who attended on him on
6-2-58 gave up hopes. He was very bad then. They alf
expected his end at any moment. His sons in their
anxiety consulted a learned astrologer, who gave m
writing that upto 26-6-58 their father would be having
indifferent health ; in May 1958 his health would be
normal and there would be a happy celebration in the
family; only on 26-6-58 he would pass away.
It will be surprising for the readers to note that every"
one of these predictions came out very true.
     (3) To a Doctor in Saidapet, it was predicted in,
1950 that on 19-12-1953 he would meet with an accident
and that he would not escape it. On the 19th, he did
not go to his consulting hall. He avoided driving his-
car. He sat comfortably in his easy chair at home^
and was absorbed in reading a medical magazine^
Meanwhile his daughter crawled and went under
a cow, in between her four legs. The Doctor, by
                            41

chance, noticed it, got alarmed and suddenly got
up. The floor slipped and he fell down breaking his
left arm. There was the fracture on 19-12-1953.
       " It is the Stars, the Stars above us.
       Govern our conditions"                 —Shakespeare-
     (4) A high official in Delhi, now in re-employment
in Calcutta wanted to celebrate the marriage of his son
with a bride in Madras, though many bride's parties
had approached him. The astrologer selected the chart
of a bride in Bangalore and said, "This Bangalore bride
will be your daughter-in-law and not the one in Madras,,
though you have decided to have the Madras bride."
    He emphatically said, " No, No, No! I am sure,
your prediction will fail. Tomorrow the people from
Madras are coming to my house for betrothal. "
       " Dear sir, an ordinary layman's word may fail; but
 this is an astrological finding. It cannot go in vain.
  It is certain that, even if Thirunethran were to bless-
  you all, you cannot have the Madras bride as your."
  daughter-in-law."
        The next day dawned. The stipulated time was fast
 approaching; they were eagerly awaiting the party's
 arrival. The time fixed had come. Every minute
  appeared to be an hour. The Muhurtha time had
 passed.
        The astrologer's words were ringing in his ears.
 He became restless. He was speculating. But the
 astrologer's friend who was also there told that,
 he was sure that the bride's party would not
 turn up ; for he had so much faith in that
rastrologer and in- the- Science. The officer decided
to ascertain this, and he phoned. He was informed by
a third party that there was a calamity in the bride's,
 house and, taking it as an ill omen, they decided not to'
proceed further in the matter.
                              42

        The same day, the officer came to the astrologer's
   residence and said that one part of the prediction had
  come true while the other remained to be tested. Days
  passed on and as already predicted, his son got married
  in that particular week, to the beautiful Bangalore
  bride.
        Astrology offers astounding predictions. Laymen
  need not be disappointed by the unexpected events if'
  one's destiny is already known; he can take it easy, be
  calm, and lead a peaceful life. ■
        (5) Here is an instance where a rich, strong-willed
  businessman miserably failed to maintain his word.
        On 10th July, 1958, the same astrologer was consul-
  ted by a businessman in Madras in regard to his illness.
  It was classified as a complicated disease by the medical
  experts after careful clinical examination. It was
  predicted that be would be in bed till 20th of the
  month, i.e., for another 10 days, though his tempera-
ture would come down to normal on 16th
he could attend to his business on and
        Actually his temperature came to normal on 16th
 .and he was picking up health. On the 28th, he invited
     the astrologer and said: " The prediction as regards
     my ailment has come true. In spite of expert treat-
     ment, the high temperature has persisted. I was in the
  hands of Karma. So I had to suffer. I          suffered. But
     mind you ! I have decided on not going to my office
     today and attending to my business. Going or not going
     to office isentirelyin my ha'nds. You say that everything
     is destiny. I can shape my destiny here, by exercising
     my will."
           The eventful day came. It was passing on. At
        00 P.M., from his office there was an urgent call to_
      the businessman asking him to.come to office at once* .
     He had to go. He did go to his office at 3-00 P.M.
  that day.                  '                                 i
                               43                  ft

     Immediately he phoned to the astrologer and said,
"Hats off—Astrology has won; I am now phoning
frorp ihy office."

^^Tbat, even in such minor affairs, one cannot
exercise his will and change the destiny, is proved
"beyond doubt.
     (6) The same astrologer was giving a lecture in
Bharateeya Vidya Bbavan, Delhi, at 6-00 P.M. on a
Thursday in September 1962. One gentleman came to
him and interrupted in the middle, saying "Sir, a week
ago I lost a purse containing Rs. 827/- in the Bazaar
street. I consulted a few; all were of opinion that it
was lost once for all—May I know whether I can get it
back or is it a total loss to me?"

     The astrologer asked for a number, explained it to
the students and said:—
     "Sir, you will be getting it intact next Wednesday.
It has been picked up by a Banker or an Advocate or
Professor. This news will appear in the papers and
you are definitely getting your purse back."
     The next Wednesday, the gentleman got back his
purse as predicted, bought sweets and distributed the
same to the students. He said, " Sir, your prediction
is wonderful. A Professor had found it and handed it
over to me intact only today, Wednesday."
     As I am not writing a folio, I shall content myself
with the above examples where I have made it clear
that Destiny is unalterable and astrological predictions
correctly presaged must come true.
    (The horoscopes of the above people will be published and how
the predictions were offered will be explained in the following
                           44

      Can any one offer any other explanation for the
following except that all were due to their stars, other-
wise called " Fate    "Destiny " or " Karma ? "
      (1) Rama to go to forest, to fight with Ravana
and then only have his coronation, attended by
Hanuman.
      (2) Dharmaputhra to lose even Droupathi in the
games and she to be put to shame, etc.
      (3) Nalan to play games; bet, lose everything, go
to forest, desert his wife Damayanthi, that too, at
dead of night, and serve as a cook.
      (4) Pattinathar, a sage, who relinquished all his
wealth, etc., and came out to spend a strict spiritual
life, was wrongly accused of theft and taken to gallows-
     If we judge without any prejudice from what
Pattinathar and others had emphatically said, we find
the unshakable truth
     " Oh ! Lord! Nothing is in my hands, all happen
according to your decree. . In this birth, to the best of
my knowledge, I have not even dreamt of any evil to
anybody nor committed any sin at all. Even then, if
I am punished now, for no fault of mine, I realise and
declare that this is only due to the Karma I might have
done in the previous birth. "
     Therefore Natal astrology is one of the branches oi
this Science which proves beyond doubt that the results
we enjoy, experience, or 'hear are all due to previous
Karma. These results are interpreted by studying the
phenomena in the Heavens and also the events on
earth.
Branches of Astrology
     The various branches of astrology are:
      (a) Medical astrology or astro-pathology;
                             45

       <b)    Astro-meteorology;
       (c)    Mundane astrology or Judicial astrology;
       (d)    Natal astrology ;
       (e)    Horary astrology;
       (f)    Electional astrology
       (g)    Kabala astrology;
       (h)    Kerala astrology;
       (i)    Omens.

     (u)     Medical Astrology :
       Health is wealth. Money can make many things
 ■when one desires and acts'; but God can offer every-
 thing whether one wants it or not, according to one's
 Karma done in the previous birth. God may bless one
  with money,'but at the same time the native may have
 to suffer any one of the incurable, chronic and loath-
 some diseases according to his destiny. Hence the
  greatest problem which is to be faced by human beings
 is the maintenance of good health. To have immunity
 and' resistance against infectious diseases, and a certain
■cure for the disease from which one suffers, one
 consults the medical expert. Astrologers opine that
 a physician can safely administer medicine if he is
acquainted with astrology. This means that, in the
 absence of astrological knowledge to start with, the
doctor has often to proceed only by trial and error
 methods and apply remedies by rule of thumb till he had
•eliminated many diseases, by varied examinations and
 ascertained the precise nature and cause of the disease.
 But if he were to know astrology, he can locate the
 part of the body affected, detect the disease and select
the opportune time for treatment. This will bring
good name, fame and satisfactory remuneration to the
doctor and also restore the patient to normal health;
                           46

otherwise, the patient will have to become a guinea-pig
for experimental tortures. This will result in loss of
time and often'in loss of life ; it will end in a loss to
the nation also. But if a doctor knows astrology and
medicine sufficiently well, he will prove to be a really,
successful practitioner. Hippocrates, renowned as the
"Father of Medicine'', has stated "A physician cannot
safely administer medicine if he is not • acquainted with
astrology." Medical astrology is concerned with the
diagnosis of diseases, the methods of healing, the time-
of the onset of the ailment, the duration of the disease
and the psychiatric aspects that may influence the
progress and prognosis of the diseases;-
     •Fortunately for the public in America, 'there -are
many physicians and surgeons v. who have learnt astrd-
Ibgy - and make use of this knowledge with' pleasant,
successful and gratifying results. There are astrological:
schools in U. S. A. and Europe with medical- astrology
as one of the subjects. They consider this as a very
important branch of .astrology which 1 needs' :the-
combination of an astrologer and a physician who will'
enjoy success in his life. He can choose an auspicious-
time to begin treatment,.to mix, dispense and.administer.
medicine, to do operation, to discharge from the-
nursing home, etc.After he has thoroughly studied:
astrology, he will feel very happy when he is capable
of differentiating the pulmonary affection of a patient.
He can say whether one suffers from tcold and tough or
dry cough or from Ebsonophilia .or Asthma or'T.'B. or
Pluferisy or Bronchitis or Pneumonia,:etc. It is easy to
predict whether one suffers'Trom'mumps, or measles,"
or chicken pox or small-pox. -It is not difficult to say
whether one has only menstrual trouble or musf-
havc the uterus removed or the suffering is due to
fibroid tumour or cancer. Such a good knowledge of
astrology would be a great asset to him. Further, by
finding out when and where an epidemic may rage, the
                            47

 Institutes .of Preventive Medicine can manufacture-
 prophylactic vaccines and the Public Health Depart-.-
 mentxan educate the public and carry on mass inocula-
  tion ; exercise extra care on proper sterilisation and
 supply of wholesome water; do away with wells not in
 use and also take other precautionary measures if it is
 a water-borne disease. There,need .not be so much rush
 to hospitals ; bed will be available without difficulty.
 There will be no necessity to extend the hospitals and
  increase .the beds; also to experience the dearth of'
 doctors ahd nurses. A wise astrologer, in his own way, ,
 may consider . that he is superior .in intellect to a
  medical man in quickly diagnosing the nature of the
  disease, the duration of ill health and the final result.
;,If one.is found in the street unconscious, a medical.,
 'attendant is to smell the moiith',. to know whether'
  the. patient is drunk, to feel the belly to ascertain
  whether it is food poisoning, or to record his tempe-
  rature to'find out whether it-would be a sun-stroke,,
   or guess whether it could be due to exhaustion after
  niuch ofxxertion, or whether it is ,due to hysteria,,
  epilepsy, etc.. He guesses to start with, and tries to .do
   good to the patient,, by administering a medicine. But
 7
   an .astrologer remaining in a place, many miles away,
   even without seeing the patient, by phone, can mention,
  tlje cause of. his unconsciousness which will be found
   surprisingly.'true and later confirmed by the doctor
    attending on him.
 *•? Astrologyfis such"a wonderful science which, when
   pcti'sed properly, gives good health, reduces medical
 Jill, increases longevity and minimises mortality. 9n^
 StfheriTsudh gdod is'to be "enjoyed by the people, the
    or "wiIPprdduce wise astrologers.
     Now, one may ask, "How will it be possible fox
 one to avoid disease, if he is destined to suffer ? " I do
 agree. But at the time when medical astrology will be
                             48

  introduced in medical colleges and all will become
  wise Astrologers as well as Physicians, the sufferings
   will naturally get reduced. Such a day will surely
 •come. It is coming.
        Now the new era is fast approaching—the dawn
  of the aquarian age. Aquarius is ruled by Uranus.
 'This produces supremely intelligent and wise astro-
  logers with intuition and introspection to offer amazing
  predictions. Aquarius is the best sign for grand success
 ■in research, especially in the useful branches of science,
  as it produces good reasoners, both theoretical as well
  as practical with radical and advanced ideas and with
;good mentality.
        The aquarian age has not yet started. It is fast
   approaching. The vernal equinox is now at 6° 44' of
 "Nirayana Pisces (Meena). So it is in Uthara Pathrapada
  ■star. Hence Jupiter's beneficial aspects are waning,
   while the aspects of Saturn and Venus are becoming
   more and more prominent.
        We are aware that in India early marriage was
 -in vogue till 1930 and thereafter, it has been declared
  a crime, as the age limit of the couple for marriage
  has been raised by legislation. It is plain to a non-
 -astrologer that the Government is responsible for
  this. But ask an astrologer, V Is (it because of the
  Government's initiative the age limit is raised?"
  "No," will be his emphatic reply. He will add that as
  time passes, according to. the fate of the subjects in a
 nation, as indicated by the age of the world, the mind
 of the authorities will get so changed that they would
 decide and act in a manner indicated by Planets which
 can be read with a knowledge of astrology. They may
 attribute this as though they have done it, without
 realising that it is the unknown force (due to the effect
 of the fate of the future subjects) which made them do '
:so. With the knowledge of astrology, much of the.-;
                           49

unknown will become known, the mysterious will
become plain and correct light will be shed. Aquarius
 (Kumbha) according to Hindu sages, is governed by
Saturn. Pisces (Meena) is ruled by Jupiter (Guru). It
is a common question put by the parents to the astro-
logers "When do you find Guru Balam (i.e., beneficial
effects of Jupiter) to my daughter or boy to celebrate
marriage." By that, one can understand that we believe
in the beneficial (Jupiter) Guru's strength to have the
marriage arranged by parents and celebrated in youth
or at least immediately after one attains the age of
maturity. As the Sayana Aries (Mesha) 0° in the 20th
century coincides with the commencement of the second
pada or quarter of Uthrapathrapada or Uthrattadhi
Nakshathra (Star) ruled by Sani and the sub by Sukra
{Venus), the age limit has to be raised. Further, male-
fic Sani (called a temptor) shows delay, crosses, dis-
harmony, disappointment and divorce; also secret
pleasant activities by a few or increase in the number
of inter-caste marriages by throwing away the tradition,
are all due to this astrological fact based on the astro-
nomical phenomena.
    It is evident that the sub of Venus (Sukra) has
dmproved all his domain.
      Venus is the chief governor for Music. In olden
•days, to hear one good musician was once in a blue
moon, a rare occurrence, whereas now we have tele-
vision, transistors, radios, gramaphone, tape-recorders,
cinema, drama and what not. Many music colleges
have been opened which have produced large number
 of good musicians night and day in every nook and
 corner of the world ; even when we sail or travel, we
 hear music relayed from all over the world in various
languages-
     Venus is the Karaka for Vahana and transport.
Let us consider how many kinds of conveyances our
                            50

forefathers had. Are we not enjoying the benefits of
cycles, motor cycles, scooters, cars, lorries, steamers,
aeroplanes, helicopters, etc., thereby covering long
distances in a very short time.
     Venus is the chief ruler of ladies. Was there any
association or club for them in ancient days? Was it
not rare to see ladies in the colleges, lady doctors in
hospitals and lady officials in offices? We have heard
of Queens alone. Now, how advanced ladies are,
having co-education and working alongside men iir
offices!
     Thus it will be seen that all changes that we observe-
are in accordance with the Great age of the Earth.
     Therefore, it is certain that at the time when-
actually the aquarian age runs, i.e., in about 475 years,-
astrology will regain popularity and this knowledge
will be used to the utmost advantage of the people. It.
is not unlikely that the people attribute the advantages
to astrology. But, actually the aquarian age will reduce
the number of patients and produce many wise astro-
logers and physicians with correct intuition.           As
Aquarius opposes Leo, most of the deaths will be sud-
den, due to heart failure, only at the age indicated in
the chart. As Leo represents heart, Aquarian age
decreases the number of deaths due to prolonged and
lingering diseases and increases sudden, pleasant end.
     Thus, when medical astrology finds general sup-
port and every medical expert is also a wise astrologer,
we can take it for granted that the Aquarian age has
commenced and diseases will be kept under control and
a few hospitals will be converted as Hostels for students
of astrology
     (b) Astro-Meteorology:       Astro-Meteorology is
useful for predicting the condition of the weather. This
has received considerable attention in other countries;
                           51

where they have found it to be very useful. It assists
in pre-planning and thereby preventing any catastrophe
which may otherwise befall, such as heavy rains, caus-
ing floods and breaches, or drought leading to poor
crops, famine, polluted water and epidemic.

   • No useful purpose will be served by complaining
against anybody or criticising any department. One can
observe daily the weather reports given by meteoro-
logists. None can claim that they are hundred per cent
correct. One should admit the limitations and one is
to recollect the proverb " to err is human     " Sudden
changes of weather, unexpected depression in the bay,
storm, etc., are divine." Meteorologists cannot give
years or months or weeks in advance, when and where
one can expect breaches due to downpour of rain. Nor
can they say in which year there will be no rain so that
intermittently restricted quantity of water may be
supplied, commencing fairly early to avert the drought.
But astrology can give correct picture, years in
advance, provided some more research is carried out
by the intelligent, able and learned astrologers.
     This branch of science is becoming popular in
other countries. It has been developed to a marvellous
degree of accuracy by a number of research. workers.
It has no connection whatsoever with the common
almanacs published by the Government Weather
Bureau. One of the greatest of astrologers, Llewellyn
George says, " It is only a matter of time, however,
when nations generally will recognize this information
and include it in their present calculations, thus making
their system more practical, serviceable and efficient."
Indeed, this branch will benefit the Government, the
Agriculturists and the Engineers to a great extent.
    (c) Judicial Astrology: Judicial Astrology is a
branch of this science which gives knowledge to predict
                           52

important events which a country will pass through ;
i.e., wars, earth-quakes, financial improvement or
crisis, losses by fire, fioods, famine, etc., can be fore-
shadowed. At present. Judicial astrology is not com-
plete and exhaustive ; it may be said that it is yet in a
preliminary stage. It has to be developed to a very
great extent to offer useful predictions, when alone the
public can take advantage of such clear and definite
forecast.
     With the knowledge that one can gain with the
present literature it is impossible to predict exactly in
which quarter a particular trouble or calamity can be
expected, by whom, why and when ? But it will be vague.
An astrologer cannot but mention many alternatives.
That is why a few make sad confusions while predict-
ing. The rules are too intricate to admit of clear
definition and too contradictory to be easily and pers-
picuously reconciled.
     Every sign indicates many countries, and many
towns. The whole world has 5 continents each of
which has many countries, innumerable cities, and just
like stars, countless villages. The localities are many.
But the signs are only twelve. So all these are to be
indicated by these twelve signs only, i.e., let us imagine
that letters are written and posted to people in each
town in various countries in the world. The postal
department has only twelve bags called Aries (Mesha),
Taurus (Rishaba), Gemini (Mithuna) and so on, upto
Pisces (Meena). So they have to sort suitably letters
to all these localities in these 12 bags only. Each bag
will be filled with many letters to various places.
Similarly, all these towns and countries are to be distri-
buted in among these twelve signs, and each sign,
therefore, has to indicate many localities, e.g., Aries
(Mesha) denotes Burgundy, . England, Denmark,
Germany, Palestine, Syria; etc., and many towns. If
                           53

Aries is afflicted, normally, what is it, that one can
predict. Any or many of these places will have some
trouble or other with many alternatives mentioned.
None can predict precisely the exact place and the
particular nature of trouble that one can expect and
when, except to guess or to give confusing or vague
predictions. Clear and definite predictions alone will
be of immense use.
     Generally, the tendency and ambition of an astro-
loger is to make attempts to predict events in every
branch of astrology. The ambition will be achieved
and it will prove to be beneficial if one specialises in
any one branch and gains some knowledge in the other
branches also. Then alone one will be able to offer
clear and correct predictions which the Government
and the public can take advantage of.
     Let us take medicine ; medical experts specialise in
any one branch and contribute their mite ; some speci-
alise in optical surgery ; some in E.N.T. ; some in pul-
monary diseases ; some cardiac; some leprosy; some
osseous system ; some nervous system; some circula-
tory and so on. .Why ? Because they have realised the
fact that it is difficult to master every branch by one
and the same person in one's life-time. Trying to
master everything, they may not know anything useful
to the patient.
      Similarly, let us consider Engineering. How many
branches there are; e.g., mechanical, automobile,
aeronautic, electrical, civil, public health, etc. Any
one branch specialised means sound knowledge to the
•Student in that branch and advantage to the public.
 Therefore astrologers also should specialise before
 offering predictions in any one of the branches and
 even there, understand the insufficient data to give
 definite prediction, being aware of their limitations.
                            54

Such astrologers, no doubt, will restore the reputation
of the noble science. Astrology.
     One or two predictions by a few astrologers may
be taken for our consideration to judge whether these
are in any way helpful or really harmful- Oneastrologer
says that the configurations of the Planets in 1962-63-64
must be considered together. In many countries, crime
wave and criminal activities will reach a new height.
A few countries will witness famine conditions for some
reason or other. Earthquake in some places will cause
damage to property. Of course, in the countries and
places wrecked by natural catastrophe, criminal activi-
ties also will prevail on a large scale.

     The above is the prediction. Nowhere, the unex-
pected trouble we encountered in October 1962 which
is the first of its kind, was mentioned clearly (giving
at least the week when such a difficulty could be
expected and exactly from which source and why from
that quarter alone.) But it is said that there will be in
this year, very disastrous Natural catastrophes like,
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, storms, excessive and
untimely rain and snowfall, high death rate and many
accidents; how many alternatives! "Oh! God," says
the reader. He asks why can't one definitely state
 which of these troubles is to be expected and where.
How can a reader select any one of these 2 By offering
such predictions, do not they unnecessarily create
panic and fear in the minds of the general public,
whereas astrology is intended more to give useful
information, mental solace and encouragement? Ts it
not a Psycho-therapy ?
     Asttologers Khouid not alii Set tho public \vi Lh iiie
terrors of severe issue. Tw.n when one is: eoaiidtnt
about one's predictions, one should convey Lk:m
with sympa'.iiclio concern, in a mild :oue,            the
                               55

seriousness of the event but should not omit to make
mention of it. Also a few readers may feel that the
astrologers need not offer such useless predictions with
thousands of alternatives.
     Another takes a few horoscopes to read the fate
of a country. One horoscope is said to be that of
India. The other is claimed to be that of Independence.
The third is mentioned as that of a ruler and so on. He
mentions a series of calamities taking into considera-
tion any one of the three horoscopes. And analysing
another horoscope, he gives courage saying that India
will be left-unscathed. When one waits and sees, the
country had for the first time in the same month the
unprecedented experience, the invasion by a neigh-
bouring country, and vital changes in the administra-
tion also.
     If one were to predict bad events, considering
any one horoscope and also say that there is nothing
to worry .by reading another chart, the reader is not
benefited. He does not know which js to be taken.
Either we will have trouble or we will be left un-
scathed. Such a prediction reminds one of the tactful
astrologer who mentions to the husband of an expec-
tant lady that his wife would give birth to a boy, and
to the expectant mother, a girl. The readers request,
the astrologer, who is capable of predicting precisely,
to offer definite predictions and avoid vague
Ones which are not really useful but actually
harmful.
     Honestly we have to realise our limitations while
offering prediction with the knowledge that can be
gained with U;e iiie.a.niT. .iviiiab:.- u; p.-cscni.: ni:n> ii>e
necessity to mention ti'.ot.sanu aiiernativcs. We. ,;!!
know taut one cannot give c'o.,-rrc..L and nre-'ae
predictions u.-. iiiis brunuh of science is incomplete.
                             56

      However, some learned scholars were nearly
 correct in a few predictions, showing that the judicial
 astrology is correct though incomplete. There are
 many instances. But a few alone are given :
       William Lily predicted that there would be a fire-
  accident in 1666 in London, which came true. The
  Japanese Royal astrologers correctly predicted Japan's
, victory over Russia in 1905. America was warned in
   1907 that it would face financial crisis which came true.
  Dr. B. V. Raman had offered many wonderful predic-
  tions which came to pass ; it was not that there was no-
  failure in their predictions. Failure, if any, was due to
  the difficulty with this branch of science which is
  incomplete. These should be taken by the students of
  astrology as opportunities for earnest and intelligent
  research.
       They have to note down, the dates when some
  events happened in their country, the Planetary posi-
  tions on those dates, and apply the astrological-
  principles. Only after many instances, one can judge
  which sign and which degree and minute in it, repre-
  sents a town and this finding is absolutely necessary to
  minimise the alternatives. Now we are not in posses-
  sion of such data to offer clear predictions and henc&
  any prediction now given includes many alternatives.
      There is another problem for research. About one-
 hundred years ago, when astrologers predicted taking
 Virgo or Capricorn for India, they predicted that India
 would face some difficulties as these signs are afflicted.
 At that time, the prediction included sufferings of the
 people in the present Independent India and the parti-
 tioned Pakistan also, since both were ruled by one
 King and the boundary of India then included Pakistan.
 Now also, the same signs are to be taken for India and .
 Pakistan and any prediction that India will be irt
 danger, will apply to Pakistan also.
                            57

     It may be argued that either the Independence
Chart or the formation of the Ministry or the chart of
of the Minister may be taken as the basis for predic-
tion. Consideration of so many charts will lead to
contradictory indications and indefiniteness in the-
predictions.
      Unless this branch is very well developed, one-
 need not attach much weight to the predictions offered
and get confused.        A reader poses the following
  question to the astrologer who offers prediction. "All
know that there was earthquake in Bihar. Did any one-
predict that Bihar alone will be afflicted and not Benares,
Bhopal or Baroda? The combination of the planets
or their disposition is the same for all these places.
Then why should Bihar alone face this calamity?"
No explanation can be offered, as to why Bihar alone
should be victimized. Because, nowhere it ia mentioned
that Bihar which is in a particular latitude and longi-
tude on Earth, is represented by a particular declination
and right ascension in the Zodiac. This branch of
science to that extent is incomplete. If every locality
is allotted a particular position in the Zodiac, one can
easily predict with confidence about a particular
locality, say Bihar. Such finding alone will be useful
to the public and to the Government.
     It is hence necessary to complete this branch by-
systematic and methodical research. Till that time, it-
will be advantageous if one confines to the extent to-
which definite predictions can be offered.
      It may be mentioned here that on 7-5-62 the
 - elhi Edition of Indian Express published a feature
about an astrologer that, in the course of his lectures
at the Bharatha Vidya Bhavan, Delhi, on 27-4-61, he
had predicted that the share market would tumble
down after 15-10-62 due to some evil in the North,
                            58

But as he was not sure about the nature of the evil, he
had mentioned a few alternatives in the light of litera-
ture available at the time. It will be of interest to
know that, in this magazine, research on mundane
astrology carried out by Mod-Ast-Res-lnstitute,
Madras will regularly appear and on those occasions,
when clear predictions can be offered, they will be
published well in advance for the benefit of all.

                    Natal Astrology
     Natal astrology concerns largely with the life of
human beings. A chart is made out for the moment of
birth and for the particular place of birth (Latitude and
Longitude being taken for calculation).
     From such a chart, one can read all events about
the native: his character, temperament and peculiarities,
longevity, condition of health, accident, proneness,
finance and fortune, marriage, birth of children and
also his prosperity or adversity. Moreover, the actual
date of any occurrence in his life can be calculated.
Thus natal astrology is very useful for one and all,
whether he is born a King, a Kubera, or a beggar; for
health and longevity are precious to every individual.
Fortune, prosperity, and above all, peace of mind and
happiness are desired by all. Hence natal astrology is
the most useful branch of this science and therefore, it
behoves all of us to support and encourage genuine
research, by trained workers and scholars, to bridge the
incomplete phases in this, just as in every other branch
of science.
      It is a fact that 100% correct predictions cannot
 be given with the literature available and with the
.knowledge that we may gain by studying them alone.
Jt is only by plodding, persevering and patiently carry-
ing out research that one will be able to fill up the gap.
                           59

supplement, improve, and make it perfect. One of the
sub-branches of Natal Astrology may be discussed for
the consideration of the readers.
     The sub-branch, taken up for discussion, is called
■"Gochara Phalan" by the Hindus. Westerners call
it " Transit". Let it be stated, with great humility, for
 the information of the readers, that the method of
 prediction adopted by research scholars is, in a way,
 an improvement over the application of the general
principles of astrology handed down to us by our
ancient sages and scholars.
     In the Western System, the astrologers take the
radical position of the Sun at the time of birth and
consider the relative positions of the Planets transiting
in the Zodiac and give their predictions. In India and
in the Hindu System, the position of the Moon at the
time of birth of the native is taken as the starting and
determining point to which the transiting positions of
the Planets arc related, and according to their relative
positions, we read the results and say whether the time
is auspicious or not. Both the methods will be found
to be incomplete and therefore the percentage of
failures is bound to be large. This cannot be of much
advantage to those who desire to know their future.

      (A) The Western System: Let us take for
 example, two persons who are born in different years
 but on the same date; say 1st May, 1920 and 1st May,
 1921 respectively. Suppose the person born on 1-5-20
 asks an astrologer whether he will come out successful
 in the elections. If the astrologer were to predict that
"at the time of elections, the relative positions of the
 planets transiting then in the Zodiac are very
 favourable, compared to the position of the sun at the
 time of birth of the native, then he declares that he
      come out successful. Similarly, the same opinion
                           60

must be offered to the other who is born on 1-5-21, as
he also has the Sun in the same position as the one born
on 1-5-1920. Suppose both of them stand for election
to the same seat in the same locality, how is it possible
for both to win ? Only one of them can win, while the
other must lose. We should, therefore, consider how
far this method of prediction alone is useful.
     Again, suppose one was born on 17th July 1906
and another on 17th July 1910 and both were playing
cards or one borrows money from the other or one
gives alms to the other. In playing cards, one gains,,
the other loses. In lending money, one parts with
money while other receives it, thereby the lender's
financial position deteriorates and that of the borrower
improves. In giving alms, one donates and the other
receives. Please note that both parties were born on
the same date (though in different years) and the position
of the Sun in either case was in the same sign and in the
same degree. On the basis of the principles followed
by Westerners, according to the relative position of the
transit of the Planets to that of the Sun alone at the
time of birth, diametrically opposite results cannot be
foretold.
      (B) The Hindu System : Similarly, in the Hindu
System also, it is difficult to explain quite opposite
results experienced by people born in one and the same
rasi, i.e., when the Moon was transiting a particular
constellation.
     Suppose two people were born on different dates,
even in different years, when the Moon was transiting
Bharani star, i.e. (Aries) Mesha Rashj, and both have a
dispute. Finally one comes out victorious while the
other gets defeated.
    Again, suppose a plaintiff in a law-suit is born in
Bharani star, the defendant and the Judge also happen to
                            61

be born in Bharani. Now let us consider the result.
Oneof the two, born in Bharani star gets the favourable
judgment, while the other is vanquished and the third
Bharani delivers the judgment.
     Two girls are born in Rohini star. One gets
married in a particular year and the other gets married
the next year. In such a case, one can find the reason
for it from the positions of the Lords of 2, 7, and 11th
houses in the chart in each of the horoscopes, and to
the relative position of the planets transiting in the
Zodiac. The planets promise marriage to the former
in a particular year, while they deny marriage to the
other in the same year. They portray the wedding only
in the following year.
    Thus we find that, even though both are born
in the same star, events occur on different dates.
This is due to the relative positions of the relevant
planets at the time of birth and those transiting in the
Zodiac.
      Suppose one collects the charts of many couples
who get married on a particular day in a given place,
village or town. One notes down their birth dates and
 birth stars. It will be revealed that the position of the
 Sun in their charts is in all the 12 rasis and of the
Moon in all the 27 stars. It will be found that not
only Aswini star people get married on any one day, or
 only Bharani people, but that people born in all the
months of the year and under all the 27 stars, may get
.married on the same day.
      So, to predict the Gochara or transit results taking
=6nly the star into consideration is also incomplete.
That is why general predictions, the rasi-palans
 published in the dailies, weeklies, and monthlies vary
even in the essentials so widely and erratically that they
 give room to the public to ridicule the noble science;
          i
                           62

Therefore, there should be a fool-proof and accurate
method by which a correct prediction can be given.
For doing this, a complete chart is first of all
necessary and Gochara Palan alone will not be
sufficient.
     The public may ask " Why then such an incorrect
chart is handed down to us?" The answer is that it is
not incorrect but only incomplete.      It appears that,,
if one knows only his date of birth or only his birth
star (nakshatra), he too may desire to have a prediction
offering him mental solace. Astrology includes also
psycho-theraphy; it should be able to give mental
strength to people to pass the lethargic days with
hopes of better days to come. To such people only
this method may be used to offer predictions which
will be true to a limited extent. For others, a
thorough study of the horoscope including transit of
Planets, is necessary.
     Actually, if the improved principles which will be
enunciated in detail in the succeeding issues are
followed, taking the position of each Planet in the
chart of the native into account, the predictions
offered will be found to be correct. A cent per
cent success is assured by taking the position of
all the Planets including Uranus and Neptune, as
well as that of the most sensitive point, Fortuna, at
the time of birth of the native and the position of
the Planets transiting in the Zodiac along with the
several aspects that are being formed, and then offering
the results of the investigation. Here also a modifica-
tion is needed. Details of such modification will be
elaborately published in the following issues.
    Let us compare the position of the transiting
planets to the position of the Moon or the Sun at ;
the time of the birth of the native ; you will find J
                           63

that in all positions on different dates, wedding was
celebrated for one or other bom under the same star or
on the same date.
     Here also, one may conclude that the science is
incomplete. But, when we apply the method to be
published, it will be clear that there is not even
one per cent error. Everything comes out very accu-
rately, which will prove that astrology is a really
wonderful science, given only to the few who
have Divine Grace. So one should consider the
positions of all the Planets at the time of birth and
assess them in relation to the relative positions of all
the Planets transiting in the Zodiac at any future
predicted date.
    The Western and the Hindu systems of predictions
based on the transits of Planets fail in many cases
whether referred cither to the Sun or to the Moon
alone.
      Let me give an example to prove that the
ascendant is also important. Also it will be proved
how the ascendant and the Moon change the nature of
the event and one's reaction. To start with, if one
studies both the ascendant and the Moon's position
of a native together, instead of the Moon alone
(i.e., Rasi), one will find that the results vafy.
i-._ Suppose one bets in a race and makes some
  money: naturally he should feel happy, but in practical
 life, he is somewhat worried and dissatisfied because
  he had missed an important winner, he was sure about.
 . Whenthis chart is examined, it will be found that the
-ascendant had only a moderately beneficial aspect, while
  Ihe Moon had an unfavourable one. Therefore his
  attempts had been successful only to a limited extent
  due to the mild aspect of the Ascendent (Lagna) which
    ade him mentally ill at ease as the Moon's aspect was
           4
                               64

 unfavourable     Another person goes to the race
 course and loses a few hundreds.        But he comes
•out merrily saying, " Better luck next time." Why ?
 He had a particular horse in mind but at the time
 when he betted, he deliberately changed over to another
 horse, a fluke, as they say. He did it with the fullest
 knowledge that he was taking a chance. He lost
 because his Ascendant was in evil aspect. But the Moon
 was in a beneficial aspect and so he did not mind the
loss and he expected to win later.

      Again, where both the Ascendant and the Moon
.have evil aspects, a man's'attempts fail and he mopes;
 where both the ascendant and the Moon's positions are
 in good aspect, he wins and feels elated.
      This is one of the many fundamental points that
•should be noted. Even though the Moon's position
 remains the same, if the Ascendant were to be different,
 the results will vary also and hence we have to take
 the Ascendant primarily and then only the Moon, the
 Sun, and the other Planets, their lordships and occu-
 pations, in order to know the correct results.
         One more example will confirm that Gochara
   Palan arrived at by taking the date of birth, etc., the
   Sun's position alone or Moon's position alone wi 11 not be
   correct in all cases. Let us take the date of birth and also
   the star of birthof all the students who are declared suc-
cessful in any given Public Examination—several thou-
   sands of the students sit for the same examination
   on a particular day and their results are published atj
  the same time. It is no wonder that people born on all'
• dates, having the Sun in all the 12 rasisand born under
 . all the 27 stars with the Moon in all the 12 signs are found"
   to have passed. If we collect the charts of those wbo^
   have failed, it will be found that they were also bornl
  on all days of the year and under all the 27 stars. Thist
                            65

particular aspect has been the subject of detailed re-
search by the Modern Astrological Research Institute,
Saidapet, Madras and New Delhi and the findings will
be given at length with adequate explanatory notes in
the forth-coming issues.
      I had occasion to see the horoscopes of two people
 who happened to be twins. These twins along with
 some other candidates appeared before a Committee
 for an interview. One of the twins was selected while
 the other was not, though their birth charts were more
 or less the same, as they were born in the same sign as
 Lagna, with the same position of Planets. Why should
these two people born with a difference of only
 24 minutes have different results. The Ascendant was
 in the same sign and all the Planets were occupying the
same sign in both the charts. Therefore the relative
positions of the Planets to that of the Lagna sign or
 Ascendant were the same. This is Sthulam. But when
the precise degree of the ascendant is considered as
also the exact positions of the Planets and calculations
 inade according to the Western System, i.e., the actual
 relative positions between the Ascendant and the
Planets, it will be seen how the aspects that are being
•formed by the Planets to the Ascendants vary. This is
ithe real cause for such varying results.
     For transitory results, Fortuna deserves serious
attention as it indicates certain results which are not
shown by the aspects formed by the transiting planets
to those in the natal chart.
,     When it is found that the results enjoyed by people
 Hnrh" within a few minutes of each other show diamet-
 pcally opposite results, we should try and find out
' he factor which is so fast moving as to cause
opposite aspects and bring about such different effects.
                           66

     All research scholars will surely declare that the
fast changing Ascendant and Fortuna cause different
aspects and produce different results. If therefore
Fortuna is also included in all calculations and
predictions offered, there can be no great room for
disappointment.
     My readers will do well at this stage to pause and
ponder over the significant truths, placed before them,
in the preceding paragraphs. That Astrology, no
doubt, is an accurate science can be proved by taking
the following instances.
    Identical results are enjoyed by people whose birth
took place at the same minute, in the same Latitude
and Longitude- I place before the readers in a tangible-
and systematic form my reasons :
     The first instance relates to two persons born at
the same time and who both got married to two career
girls who were earning. They had ho children but
both couples were very fond of domestic pets, cats
and dogs. The two males were lecturers producing
identical results, with equal interest in politics, philo-
sophy and religion. Minor events also in their lives,
were also strikingly similar; for example, both suffered
from toothache at the same time and on the same day.
Yet, the two male partners were in no way related to
each other and hailed from widely separated places.
    Another instance is about two men born in the
same village who narrated their experiences after they
had lived there for a fairly long time. Their tempera-
ments, behaviour and character were identical.
Both had pleasing manners, were always cheerful and!
never rude to anyone. Both were robust in health
and whenever one fell ill, the other also ailed from the'"
same disease. Each of them lost a child in the same?
month, and had the same number of children. One^
                            67

was a journalist, while the other was a writer of fiction.
Mercury, Mars and Jupiter were the signs who ruled
over their professions. The culmination in this extra-
ordinary similarity was in the death of these two
natives on the same day.
     Yet another instance relates to a report that
appeared in a foreign journal in 1820. It mentioned
that Samuel Hennings died at the age of 82. He
was born on 4-6-1738 at a place situated in the same
Latitude and Longitude, as King George III, who
ascended the throne in October 1760; Mr. Hennings
was then an independent business-man. King George
III got married on 8-9-1861 and on the same day
Mr. Hennings took Elsie for his wife. Both had the
same number of children of each sex. Both were
long-lived and died at the same hour on 2-9-1820.
    Instances can be multiplied for such remarkably
coincident happenings. The principles governing such
events will be explained later.
          WHAT THE STARS SAY?

     Jyothisha Visharath K. GANAPATHI,
               Secretary, M.A.R.I.
     Generally, the predictions are offered by taking the
position of either the Sun or the Moon at the time of
one's birth and referring to the position of the Planets
transiting in the Zodiac. Some laymen are confused
when they find that the predictions are given by a few,
according to the date of birth and by others according
to the Rasi and Nakshathra. The date of birth indicates
the position of the Sun, whereas:the star and rasi refer
to the position of the Moon at birth..
     If one knows only the date of birth, one can refer
to the sign in which Sun will be found on that date.
     If one knows only the rasi where the Moon was at
the time of birth, one is to refer to that sign. If one
knows only one's Nakshathra or star which spreads
over in two signs, then one is to note in which quarter
of the star one is born and then ascertain the sign-
     If one knows both the date and the rasi, one is
advised to refer to both the signs, when the results will
be very nearly correct. Only for those who are born
on and very near New Moon day both the Sun and the
Moon will be found in the same sign. They will be
around 8% of the people. For others, the two posi-
tions will differ. Such of these people have to read
their results in both the signs occupied by the Sun and
the Moon.
     Those, who know the time and date of birth, but
do not know their star and the position of the Moon^
can refer to the Editor.
Examples:—
     1.   Born on 25th July in Swathi Star:
          The Moon will be in Libra or Thulam when
          the star is Swathi.
          Sun will be in Cancer or Katakam on 25th
          July—Nirayana—So one is to refer to Libra
          and Cancer.

     2.   15th April : Barani Star.
          The Moon will be in Aries as the star is
          Barani. The Sun will be in Aries as the
          date is 15th April—Nirayana.
          So Aries alone is to be referred.

     3.   3rd December: Anuradha Star.
          3rd December refers to Scorpio where the
          Sun will be on that day.
          Anuradha star also refers to Scorpio where
          the Moon will be.
          So he has to refer to Scorpio only.

     4.   10th April: Sravanam Star.
          On 10th April, the Sun will be in Pisces or
          Meena according to Nirayana system.
            ravanam star will be in Capricorn or
          Makara. The Moon will be there. So
          reference may be made to Pisces and
          Capricorn. _
          The transit results offered by taking all
          planets, ascendant, etc., at birth to all the
          planets transiting in the Zodiac alone will
          be accurate, whereas these will be general.
       ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA




      By Jyothisha Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


-Vol. I.                   MAY 1963                     No. 2.


                          CONTENTS

                                                       Page No _
 1.    What Follows ?                                         1
 2.    Horary Astrology                                       6
 3.    Shanti—To ward off evil                               13
 4.    Astrology—Learn and earn name and fame                22
 5.    Seven and its Sanctity                                31
 6.    The Earth
        (To locate a place on the earth)                     35
 7.    The Heavens                                           46
 8.    Different kinds of time
        (Sidereal time; Conversion of the Standard
         Time to local mean time ; How to calculate
         sidereal time for any time at any place of Birth
         on Earth)                                           51
 9.    Monthly Prediction (English)                          68
10.    Monthly Prediction (Tamil)                            85
                  WHAT FOLLOWS?
         ASTROLOGY is to guide one about what is to
  ..■come in the future without resorting, to any guess or
  surmise. This science is intended to be told in crystal
r .clear manner anything and everything that is to
    happen. Therefore this astrological magazine follows
   the same principle and desires to mention those which
    are to appear in the succeeding issues.
        The Editor has given us to understand that he has
   proposed to publish cogently articles on astronomy
   and astrology in about 32 to 48 pages a month;
   monthly predictions will cover about 16 pages in
  "English and 16 pages in Tamil and between 16 and 32
   pages may be allotted for various articles from learned
  ^schplars. What articles have been received from others
  -and in which monthly issue they will appear will be
   published a month or two in advance. The topics that
  ■will be explained by our Professor, the Editor of this
  •magazine, in the subsequent issues are given below :—
      1.. The Earth : North Pole, South Pole, Equator,
  Longitude, Latitude, International Date Line.
       2. The Heavens: Pole star. Celestial Equator,
  Right Ascension, Declination, Meridian, Equinoc-
  tial points. Equinoxes, Ecliptic, Zodiac, Celestial
  Longitude, Celestial Latitude, Parallels.
       3.   How to locate Planets.
     4. The Zodiac : The Twelve Signs. Their Names
 and Symbols. The Planets: Their Names and Symbols.
      5. Constellations:    Nakshathras.
      A—1
                            2

     6. The Signs and their rulers. Benefics and
Maleficsi   Signs ; Movable, Fixed, Common, Fire,.
Earth, Air, Water; male and female, Kendhras and
Konas, succedents, Cadent Houses, Northern and:
Southern signs. Equinoctial sighs.   Fruitful signs,.
Barren signs, Mixed signs. Signs of short ascension.
Sign of long ascension ; Bicorporal signs: Human
signs: Signs of Voice : Mute signs: Exaltation
Dignity, Moolatrikona : Friends, Enemies ; Neutral ;.
Temporary friends and temporary enemies.
     7. Different kinds of time:        Apparent solar
time; Mean solar time ; Sidereal Time ; Standard time;
Local Mean time; Conversion of Standard Time to
Local Mean time ; Calculation of Sidereal at the time of
birth or of an event at any place on earth.
    8.   Ephemeris :   Motion: direct and retrograde.
    9.   Table of Houses:
    10. To find out the cusps of houses : To calculate-
the exact position of planets for a particular moment
of birth or of incident.
    11. To erect charts by Western or Sayaria system^
Fortuna, Equinox, Precession of Equinox. A table as-
a ready reckoner for each year*
                                1
    12. To erect maps by Nirayana system.
   13.   Navamsa and its use.
   14.   Rectification of Birth time.
   15. Relative disposition among two planets..
Between one Planet and Ascendant ,or Meridian or
Fortuna.
   16. Aspects: Western and Hindu.         The Orbs,.
Guide to aspects, Translation of light, applying and
separating aspects : Refranation: Dexter and sinister r
Conjunction: Parallel: Square : Opposition: Sextile
Trine etc.
   17. Udndasas:        Vimsodhari,   Ashtodhari, Kala-
chakra etc.
    18. Each Rasi; Each Planet: Mythology : Astro-
nomy; general features, characteristics, weakness,
disease, professions, inanimate objects; metals;
colour; direction; number; countries and towns
indicated; political, economical, produce, etc".
   19.   12 Houses:     Their indications.
   20.   Planets in each sign.
   21.   Planets in each house.
    22. Aspects between one planet and the other.
Sun to Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc. 'Moon to
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, etc. Also aspect among
lords of each house.
   23.   Progression.
   24.   Transit, Western and Hindu.
   25.   Ashtaka Varga.
   26.   Shadbala.
   27.   Personality.
   28.   Longevity.
   29.   Health; Disease ; General constitution.
   30. Finance,     Fortune, Self acquisition. Worldly
possessions.
   31.   Brothers and sisters.
  32.    Short journeys, publications - agency.
  33.    Education.
  34.    Vehicle, conveyance.
                               4

    35.   Landed property : Building - Mother.
    36.   Speculation: Lottery, Races, Betting.
   37.    Servants: Pets ; Debts, Enmity.
   38. Marriage:        Married    Life: Lawful; Cross:
Divorce.
   39.    Partner ; Business ; Litigation.
   40.    Will: Legacy.
    41. Father: Religion; Philosophy; Higher Edu-
cation ; Competitive Examination ; Overseas : Foreign
Travels.
    42. Profession: Honour: Backbiting : 111 repute.
    43. Friends: Hopes and Desires.
    44. Treachery : Imprisonment: Expenses : Hospi-
talisation.
   45.    Horary Astrology; detailed.
   46.    Market forecasting.
   47.    Mundane astrology.
   48.    Medical astrology.
   49.    Stellar astrology.
    50. Improved Methods of Prediction by the author
after much of research done in Modern Astrological
Research Institute.
  51. Why Stellar Astrology is to be followed and
Western aspects are to be applied in all cases.
    52. The correct time of birth—rectification,
pre-natal.
    53. Research done on Pre-naial Epoch.
 . 54. Which Panchanga is to be followed, Tbirk or
Vakya? Which Siddhaotha is to be adopted?
                              5

      55. Fortune on Chandrashtama day—How                to
  reconcile.
     56. Marriage, appointment, promotion, success
  in competitive examinations during the periods of
  Ashtama Sani and also during the seVen and half years
  Saturn. Explanation.
     57. When Jupiter transits in the llth house,
  money is lost. When it transits in the 12th, it is
  regained. How ?
     58. Expects a promotion on a particular day but.
  on that day his maid servant delivered a child and there'
  was no promotion. Why this alternative ? and similar
  questions.
    . 59. Combinations of Planets        and   varieties of
  professions.
      60. (Which Ayanamsa is correct? To establish it.
  by illustration and convincing .proofs.
         Any problem which the readers may suggest and
    any other subject as it appeals to the editor, will be
    published as separate articles. These will be useful to
    the students and scholars, If any reader wants to have
    any doubt cleared, he is welcome to write to the editor.
    Even if there is difference of opinion on any •' matter,
    the editor invites such, so that he can try to convince
    the reader by explaining them more clearly with
    examples and illustrations. Therefore the editor craves
    indulgence of the readers for the short-comings if any,
!u and solicits their favour of making any suggestion they
  t may think proper, with a view to its being inserted in
h future issues.
                             Members,
                                            i   *
         Modern Astrological Research Institute,
                        Madras.
                            6

                   Horary Astrology
     This branch of science is mysterious, perfect,
wonderful and most useful. After thoroughly under-
standing the principles, one can offer correct, clear and
precise predictions without any confusion. This helps
the astrologer to confirm what prediction he has to give
by using other methods which, when explained, will
convince and satisfy the consultant.
     Generally, the astrologer asks the querist to give
a number at random within 108. The number that is
given forms the basis for the prediction. Some may
scoff at this branch of science saying that the predictions
given by Horary Astrology cannot be correct as the
number given is after all a chance. They may suggest
that the person could have given any other number or
thought of one number and mentioned another. Such
people do not realise that the querist cannot give any
other number except the one which he had given. They
have no personal experience that it is the divine force
which works and enables the astrologer to predict. The
number that he gives depends upon his past action or
Karma as well as the future results he is to enjoy, just,
as the moment of birth is the effect of his past Karma.
None can convince that one's birth at the particular
moment, whether normal or cesarian, is a chance.. If
one were to reiterate, one is ignorant of the wonderful
Divine Law.
     Generally, this branch of science is resorted to,
mainly by those who have no horoscopes or who doubt
the correctness of them. This branch of science can
never answer all questions and clear all doubts. Occa-
sionally it may appear for the beginners as though there
are contradictory indications in astrology, when they
try to predict using other methods of prognostication.
On those occasions, they can make the best use of
                             7

 Horary astrology for proper guidance and confirmation.
 Even when one is confident about one's own prediction
 in the other branches of the science, Horary Astrology
 has to be used as a final safe method to declare with
-confidence the results already obtained.

       Suppose two people stand for election in the same
 ■locality or for any single seat as President, Chairman*
■etc. Horoscopes may or may not be correct. Even
  if correct charts are given, there may be a doubt
  whether ' A' will come out victorious or £BThat is
  why, some predictions offered without using Horary
■system miserably failed. To be sure of one's prediction.
 Horary Astrology is the best and most reliable, to be
 used with advantage.
      This method is as rational and as scientific as any
other branch of astrology and it is the sublime art of
fore-seeing events from the position of the Planets at
the moment when one propounds seriously a question
.about any important matter. By applying it, one can
 predict the longevity, health, success or failure in
one's enterprise, one's stay in foreign land or his return,
 the time of marriage, the description of partner,
j-e-union or divorce, birth of children, sex of the child,
results of the examination, recovery of lost articles,
 gain by lottery or races or speculation, success in liti-
gation, treasure, legacy and anything and everything
on the earth.
     This branch of science is not a bluff. It is not to
dupe the gullible throng. But at the same time, it is
not easy for the students of astrology to make predic-
tions infallibly unless they are thorough with the prin-
ciples of astrology available now.
    (The Modern Astrological Research Institute is
doing research in this line and their findings will be
                             8

published in the following issues in proper places so»
that the readers may make the best use of the findings^
to come out correctly in the predictions and establish,
that every branch of astrology is really a science).
     Electional Astrology : Electional Astrology is the-
branch which indicates the most auspicious time for
commencing any new undertaking: for marriage, upa-
nayana, purchase of costly articles, construction of
houses, buildings, time of getting admitted in the-
hospitals, time of operation, for performing religious
and social functions, purchase of car, admission . in
schools, colleges etc., joining duty, taking charge or
handing over charge of duty, purchasing lottery
tickets etc.
     Kabala Astrology; This will be dealt with in *
detail later under Numerology—
     Kerala Astrology: This is prediction by looking at
a person's face or asking him to mention the name of
a flower and having it as the basis for prediction.
       Omens: When one wants to predict or select a
moment using anyone of these branches, it is necessary
to look at the omens at the time of prediction. These
will agree with the results obtained by either Horary
or Kabala or Kerala branch of astrology and it is use-
ful ■ for predicting definitely with clarity and confidence.
Omens are clear and correct indicators and thereby they
play an important part.
   . Bhattotpala says in Prasnagyana that good or bad
effects can be predicted through the internal and exter--
nal omens which are the deciding factors. There are
people who actually take a decision after noting the
omens; they never proceed further in a matter if the-
omens were to be ill and disheartening. In every vital
point as fixing up a marriage, change of houSe, pur-
                              9

chasing house etc., Varabamihira says that an omen-
reveals the fruition of one's action, good and bad, done
in the previous birth. The omens are not superstitious
beliefs. Omen is otherwise called " SAGUNA.".
     This is a vast subject. It needs no skill to predict.
One can refer to the subject on omens elaboratly dealt
with by Varabamihira in Brihath Samhita, and note the
result directly. If, at a particular time, there is more
than one omen, then the interpretation depends upon,
the individual.
     1. One day a Guru was with his disciples discus-
sing some principles relating to omen and astrology. A.
gentleman stepped in and said that he would like to-
consult the Guru on an important matter.
     Guru said, " Come on,what can I do for you 7"
     With a little delicate feeling to say it in the presence
of the students, he said, " My wife has deserted iner
and she is living separately due to some unforeseen
circumstances. Some months have passed. There is
not even a letter from her. Therefore I am worried
and I am anxious to know about my married life."
     While the person was narrating his sad story,.
Guru's wife went out with a rope and bucket to get.
water from the common well in the street. Before the-
stranger completed his narration, Guru's wife stepped
in and requested her husband to take the bucket from
the well, as the rope gave way while she was drawing
water from the well.
     Guru turned to the students and asked them " What
have you to say? Take this as an omen, interpret,
it carefully and predict."
     Most of them, without hesitation, at once saidr
" the bondage between husband and wife is the yellow
                             10

■saffron thread called " Mangalyam " or " Thalikkayar
 As the rope gave way, it suggests that Mangalya Saradu
 ds also scissored off.   Therefore the stranger's wife
 will never turn up. The tie between husband and wife
 cannot continue further.
      But one of the students predicted otherwise,
 -which the Guru approved.    "Sir, I do not agree with
 them. To me it appeals that the lady will come and
 join the husband very soon.        Husband and wife
 belonged to one family and lived together even as
■drops of water were together in the well. The rope
 and bucket are the evil forces trying to separate a part
of the water from the remnant in the well. The evil
•period was over, the rope gave way, aPd the water had
 re-union with the remnant in the well; so also the
 gentleman's evil days are over, and his wife will come
■back and live with him and children."
     Thus an intelligent interpretation is needed when
the indications are more than one. If the rope alone had
given way after drawing the water one can say that she
would not come back as water' is separated and then
only the rope was found to have worn out.
      2. One gen tleman was unable to take a decision to
■celebrate the marriage of his son with a particular
liride. He was wavering; he was both for fixing up the
 marriage with the girl and also greedy enough to wait and
 try to have a career girl. So he consul ted an astrologer.
"While they were discussing, a postman delivered a
marriage invitation letter to the astrologer who unhesi-
 tatingly advised the querist to go ahead with the bride
.already in view. For, the receipt of an- invitation is
auspicious to fix up a wedding. He explained that if
 the postman had given a letter which contained half a
•dozen charts for selection of a bridegroom to his daugh-
ter, then he can say, " wait andsee." But when-the letter
                             11

shows that the marriage is fixed already and the marriage
is to be celebrated shortly he can only say, "Fix the
"bride already in view." In a few weeks, the marriage
was fixed and celebrated. The couple are now leading
a happy life.
     3. An Officer handed over a letter to the astrologer
and asked him to say whether his grand-father, reported
to be serious, would recover or succumb to the disease.
He said that he had to make arrangements and apply
for leave to go home.

     The astrologer asked him to mention a number
within 1081 27 was mentioned. While the astrologer
was calculating, he heard his wife talking to her friend
inside the house, expressing her deep sorrow to the
guest. " I am really sorry to read in the papers that...
has passed away. I take it a great loss, as he was always
helpful to my family. It is also a loss to the nation. "
Further, at that time, a purohit came and reminded the
astrologer that his father's anniversary was to be perfor-
med the next day. Lest the querist should mistake him,
the tactful astrologer did not immediately predict. He
wasted a few minutes under some pretext, though he
had already taken a decision as what to predict. He
said, ''My young man, take long leave and proceed
at once to grand-father's place. Don'tjwaste time."
Before the native arrived, the patient passed away.
These indications will never fail.
     4. One, who is very anxious to have a child puts the
query to. the astrologer, to study the horoscopes of a
couple and predict whether they could expect any child
at all. Before the astrologer could decide, a lady steps
inside and invites the astrologer to come to-her resi-
dence the next day to bless her sister's child on its birth-
day.    You may well guess what the astrologer would
have predicted.
                            12

      God will always be alert and be giving such
 wonderful guidance to the astrologer, to predict
correctly, if those who consult him would have satis-
factorily done virtuous deeds in the previous birth.
Only those who had committed serious sins in the last
birth will be disappointed in this birth in every walk of
life. Even able astrologers will have misguiding facts
which they have to use as the basis, so that their
calculations will go wrong and the prediction will fail-
Probably the chart given to the astrologer may be cast
by a quack and may be incorrect. Or the querist
would have mentioned 14. The astrologer would
have misheard it as 40, worked and offered a prediction
which failed finally.      Mishearing is God's action
which is due to the querist's karma. Thus in everything
divine force will work. God neither gives proper
guidance to him nor allows the astrologer to give
correct prediction in his case alone.
     One can consult any astrologer. Only when the
native and the astrologer have favourable.time, the
astrologer will be able to give correct prediction to him.
But, if their time is unfavourable, everything will go
wrong and the party cannot have peace of mind. Good
actions alone will yield desirable results. Thus astro-
logy reminds one to do good alone which will
surely offer peace of mind. Nowhere in the Christian
Scriptures, is astrology disapproved. Nowhere it is
forbidden. But it warns us as to its proper rise.
    . So let us learn astrology, know our future, be.
contented and lead a useful happy," harmonious life
with peace and prosperity.
  MAY LORD TJCHISTA MAHA GANAPATHI
           BLESS US ALL.
                       SHANTI
              TO WARD OFF EVIL

     Astrology is the Science which explains the law of
nature. It is entirely based on the Karma and Reincar-
nation theory. At the same time, it supports Newton's
third law of motion that evety action has an equal
reaction. It proves that no action will go to waste and
also nothing can happen without a cause, That is why
astrology is considered to be a convincing science.
Accurate results predicted by an able astrologer will
surely come to pass whether one does Shanti or not.
In all cases, Shanti cannot offer complete protection
from the evils. It does not give guarantee to all.
      Those who believe in Shanti may ask, " If one
 can't modify or nullify the evil by doing Shanti, why
 have the sages prescribed varieties of Shanties to ward
 off evil? If every action has to produce a reaction or
 cause an effect, then how can the Shanti performed go
 in vain without removing the evil ? Hindus perform
 Pujas and Homas, pray to Gods and Planets, construct
■choultries and hospitals, feed the poor and the disabled,
 do charity and assist the needy, etc. Cannot these
 virtuous deeds mitigate the affliction? In other
countries, though they do not perform homa, etc., yet
 they do charity or help the fellow beings and animals
 without having faith or expecting any beneficial result
 in overcoming difficulties. Even then whether they
 have faith or not, whether they do it with a set purpose
 or hot, should not such casual or continuous meritori-
 ous action help such persons to get rid of evil ? "
      Astrology says that Destiny cannot be altered.
What is meant by Destiny is not generally properly
understood by non-astrologers. Karraa is that which
is already done in the previous birth. Destiny includes
                           14

all actions done in that birth and the results which one
is to enjoy. One's Destiny may force him to do Shanti
and give complete protection by removing the anticipa-
ted evil or only to an insignificant extent or it may
prevent one from performing any Shanti at all. Destiny
ultimately gives the result which one has to surely
experience, without any alteration. The people have
to subdue to fate, otherwise termed Destiny.
     Therefore the people may be classified into four
groups. One group will be those who do Shanti and
enjoy the results, desired by them and may attribute the
benefit to the Shanti; the other group will do Shanti,.
yet suffer, without any appreciable redemption and say
that, however much they offered Shanti, it did no good.
The third group will neither do Shanti nor believe in
it. Yet they live happily, roll in wealth, have success
after success and enjoy enviable results. The fourth'
group never does Shanti, but ever suffers.
     The circumstances under which one is placed, one's
natural expectations and normal anticipation," one's-
performing Shanti either out of fear or for favour and.
the ultimate results are all due to one's previous Karma.
All these can be read from one's horoscope and it is
possible for the astrologer to estimate the seriousness
of the Karma. Have we not seen inNadis " written
by the sages that advices are offered to do' various
Shantis depending on one's past action.
   Karma can be divided broadly into three kinds.
"DHRUTHA KARMA", " DHRUTHA ADHRU-
THA KARMA" and "ADHRUTHA KARMA".
     By Dhrutha Karma, it is meant, that one hias com-
mitted an inexcusable mistake or crime in the previous
birth, like murder, denying food and shelter to the-
invalid old parents, cheating the minor brothers during
partition, to deny the wages to the poor class of help-
                           15

less servants, cheating, ingratitude, etc. Such male-
factors, ungrateful children, dishonest brothers, mighty
masters and cheats may do any amount of Shanti.
They cannot ward off the malefic results to the desired'
extent as the crime is serious and unpardonable,,
though to a negligible extent it will be reduced,,
as no action will go to waste and every action has its-
own result. But the same Shanti, done by people
who have committed pardonable mistakes, mitigates-
the affliction in full and leaves" them unscathed.
Suppose" A" has borrowed Ks. 50,000/- and "B " has-
taken only rupees one hundred as loan. " A " repays
rupees one hundred. "B" also repays rupees one-
hundred: " A " has yet to suffer as the loan cleared is-
negligible and the burden is yet more or less the same-
But " B" is care-free and regains peace of mind.
Therefore, such Dhrutha Karma people have to accept
the punishment, undergo the trial and patiently endure-
the penalty.     In such cases, "Avasyaro Anubok-
thavyam Kritham Karma Subhasubham" will apply.
Whether they pray to God or they perform any Shanti,.
they should reap the consequences of the previous-
Karma, with practically no appreciable modification,
because of the Shanti done.
     (God is all merciful; yet He is all attentive to His-
Duty in administering justice. He is-fully aware of the-
Karma which one has done in the previous birth, the.
Shanti or virtuous deed one will do in this birth and
His impartial judgment is „the result which one will
enjoy. God knows what Shanti one will do,- how far
it would mitigate and what the result would be.)
     In the horoscopes of those who have done'Dhrutha
Karma, the Dasanatha, the Bhuktinatha, Lagna and
Moon will be devoid of the beneficial aspect from
Jupiter and from the lord of the 9th house who indicates--
the virtuous deeds done in the previous birth.
                            16

      Dhrutha adhrutha Karma means that one would
"have committed excusable mistakes in the previous birth.
 It is just like an ignorant person having purchased
a ticket to Bombay getting into Calcutta Mail. The
Inspector finds out the mistake and points it to him.
The passenger pleads ignorance and prays for excuse.
The examiner leaves him without any punishment In
such person's horoscopes, either the Lagna or Moon or
Dasanatha or Bhukthinatha will receive favourable
aspects from either Jupiter or Lord of 9 or both. Here
the crime committed is so simple that he can be Excused
on his bumble application.
      A constable can excuse a driver for having driven
 a car on the wrong side if he gives satisfactory expla-
 nation like skidding pr puncture, etc., especially when
 there is neither traffic nor accident.. But the same con-
 stable cannot excuse the driver, if the car runs over a
I>oy. Hence excuse or no excuse depends on the
 seriousness of the crime.
      The third one is Adhrutha Karma. The crime
 committed may be negligible. It might have ended only
 in evil thought. Suppose a young boy finds a fruit-
 bearing tree in a house over-hanging on the road side,
.and goes near it and like a vulture is moving there alone
 with a desire to have the fruit. The. owner nqtes
 the boy and whistles. The boy understands that the!
-owner is watching him and so he retraces his step
 honourably. He does not remove the fruit.. The boy
 had only the evil thought but he did not commit theft:;
 Such ones may be classified "is Adhrutha Karma. In
 such a person's horoscope. Guru of Lord of 9 will be in
 the Lagna or conjoined with Moon, or t>asanatha or
JBhukthinatha. Such people will enjoy life though they
 do not perform any Shanthi, nor pray nor donate for
 a good cause in this birth. One should not forget that
"Karma of the previous birtband Shanthi or no .Shanthi.
                                 17

in this birth result in the final destiny which is the
 impartial judgment of God, which was already, once
for all, decided at the time of birth. This is called as
   that which is written on the head " (ThalaiEzhuththu).
This can be read from the horoscope. God writes on the
 head only once. He does not alter now and then
 as and when the Shanthi is done. Nor can the birth
time be changed. The horoscope will ever remain the
 same. Hence the results indicated must come to pass.
"We know that doing or not doing Shanthi is also indi-
cated in the horoscope. The variety, of Shanthi which
one may be advised to do depends upon the Planets
ivhich rule his time and also the nature of the results
which the native desires to have.
       In a lady's chart, Rahu and Saturn are in the fifth
 bouse and both are in the constellation of Lord of 6.
  The native was married in Mercury (Budha Dasa),
  Jupiter Bhukti (Guru sub-period). Saturn Bhukthi *
 followed. Years passed. It did not give her the plea-
  sure of having a child. Kethu Dasa followed.
 Every fourth week disappointed her and the husband.
  The couple became anxious. They approched an astro-
 loger who said that, in her chart, Jupiter was conjoined
 with Kethu in 11 while Sani and Rahu were in 5. So
 he advised that, if they do Shanthi, they would surely
 have a child during Kethu Dasa, Guru Bhukthi. As per
 his advice, they visitedBeharas, then Raraeswarara, and
 finally Guruvayur Krishna, at the time when Guru
 Bhukthi just started. They also did some charity.
 They had a child born before her Kethu Dasa Guru
 Bhukthi ended.
     {" Hcre'the chart denotes that Lord of Lagna is Jupiter(Guru) who
 is conjoined with Dasanatha Kethu. That she will take the advice
 and do Shanti is clearly shown. Guru in 11 promises progeny. So
-she. had a child during Guru's period. The child was born
in Moolaoi star which is governed by Kethu,. in Jupiter's. sign
"Sagittarius).
                           18

      It may be asked, if she had not gone to these holy
places, could she have had the child. The astrologer
will say, that she will have a child whether she wards-
off the evil by such pilgrimage or not and also that she
had to visit, to wipe off the malefic effects and receive
the blessings of God in the shape of a boy. Both are-
her fate.
     Two friends A and B request an astrologer'
to suggest some remedy, i.e., Shanthi as they were
suffering from eye trouble. The astrologer found that
in A's birth chart, the evil period was coming to
an end whereas in B's chart the future was becom-
ing worse. He suggested to them that " Surya Namas-
karam" would be effective. He also added that A
would have the benefit, whereas B could not expect
any improvement. Both decided to do Shanthi. " A ""
found all favourable conditions for him to do it satis-
factorily and enjoyed the beneficial results. "B " had
many obstacles and impediments even to perform
" Suryanamaskaram        With all that, he managed to
do the Shanti. Yet unfortunately, he had no improve-
ment.
       Thus it can be shown that it is possible for an
  astrologer to say whether one can have the chances to-
  do offerings to God and whether one will have the
  advantage of such an action or not, by reading the
  horoscopes and ascertaining what yariety of Karma he-
. ought to have done in the previous birth.
    Shanthi is of two kinds. One is Thrishta Shanthi
and the other is Athrishta Santhi. By Thrishta Shanthi
is meant that one knows what Shanthi he should do-
and that he is aware of the results of such a remedial
measure.
     If one suffers from headache and takes Aspro. or
Saridon or Anacin or Codopyrin he knows : that'.these
                            19

are specifics for headache and he gets the relief. A few,
even after taking them, specific may continue to suffer
which is also their fate. Here the native is aware of his
taking the medicine and also its curing effect. This
is Thrishta Shanthi.
     Athrishta means that which one can't see with
naked eyes and non-astrological eyes. Athrishta-shanthi
brings results without the knowledge of the person.
Nor can the person judge the nature of favourable
result he may enjoy and also whether Athrishta Shanthi
includes homa, prayers, pilgrimage, construction
of hospitals, maternity home, schools, choultries,
feeding the poor, donating blood, etc., but the nature
of the beneficial result which he may enjoy is not
known. That is why it is called Athrishta.
      Thus it will be seen that astrology can show what
Karma one should have done in the previous birth,
whether one will do Shanthi or not in this life, and the
ultimate results one is to enjoy. It is also known that
 every action will have its reaction : i.e., good actions
yield desirable results, whereas bad actions bring evil to
the native.
     As doing Shanthi is always considered to be a
virtue and therefore it has necessarily to bring favou-
rable results to the doer, it is advisable that one
either prays God or does Homa or contributes for a
good cause.
     The number of people who commit inexcusable
crime like murder amounting to Dhrutha Karma will be
very few.    The number of people who do not
commit any crime at all but occasionally think of
evil, known as Adhrutha Karma, will be still fewer.
Both form a very small minority. But the majority
of people commit excusable mistakes called Dhrutha
Adhrutha Karma. Therefore Shanthi will be done
                           20

by them with or without their knowledge and they
will not ultimately suffer. As a layman may not know
which variety of Karma he could have done in the
previous birth, he will assume that he is one among
many and that the performance of Shanthi will give
him solace and peace of mind and ward off suspense
which is highly painful
     Shanthi may be compared to taking prophylactic
vaccines against cholera, or typhoid, or having re-
vaccination against small pox. Such a preventive mea-
sure gives confidence and immunity. One can visit the
infected areas with courage and mix with such patients
though it may not guarantee that all those who had
taken preventive measures will never suffer. Even if
one contracts the disease, the attack will be very mild.
     Six years ago, four friends visited Kancheepuram
to enjoy a festival when cholera was prevalent there.'
Two of them did not take cholera vaccine inoculation
before leaving Madras. But the other two had taken it
well in advance. Actually, one of the two who had
taken the prophylactic vaccine, did not suffer from
cholera, at all. He was hale and healthy. The other
even after taking it in time, had a very mild attack and
recovered rapidly. The third who could not have the
inoculation was attacked by cholera severely and suc-
cumbed to it. The fourth who had no inoculation
neither had the attack nor any difficulty, because he
had the immunity within himself. But only those.two
who had inoculation were fearless during the visit while
the other two had their own doubts and fears-' Simi-
larly, the performance of Shanthi will give mental
strength, will reduce the virulence of the evil and more
often save the individual.              ' •
    If one does not -perform Shanthi or any virtuous
deed, one can't be confident about his happiness in
                          21

the future. There will be the doubt whether it will be
peaceful or miserable. A few may live happily. But
many will suffer from untold miseries.
     One attends to minor repairs to his car before
starting out and drives it with confidence. Two other
people drive, without testing it. One car returns safely
and the other car breaks down. Is it not advisable
to have the car examined by the expert, have the minor'
repairs attended to, and then alone drive ? Just as the
repairs can give confidence to the driver about the
peaceful nature of the journey, even so the pe'ffor-
mance of Shanthi will be helpful to relieve one from
worries.
     Astrology indicates who will do Shanthi and
attribute the reduction of the evil result to Shanthi
alone. The person may be ignorant of the fact that
his fate was that he should do Shanthi and he
unnecessarily expected a more serious trouble, whereas
only a mild one was his fate.
    Astrology advises all to be good, to do Shanthi in
any form and enjoy life with absolute peace of mind.
    PEACE AND PROSPERITY BE UNTO YOU.
                   ASTROLOGY
 LEARN AND EARN NAME AND FAME

      Often people approach my Guru and express
their difficulties in the art of astrological predictions.
One of them said, "Sir, there was always an ardent
desire in me to learn astrology. I had the opportunity,
to study the science regularly. I earnestly worked
night and day and tried to understand the principles.
When I felt that I would be able to read the horos-
copes, my friends gave me some charts and asked me
to offer my findings. Various ideas flashed in my
mind.     I found contradictory indications confusing
and depressing me. Finally, 1 made a sincere attempt
to predict. I did not have much to say but to mention
a few words. On finding that the querist was not
satisfied and continued to stay expecting me to predict
something more, I looked at him. He also looked at
me with pity. Any-how, I again tried to predict
something more, but I was going on repeating what I
bad already said; such an embarassed situation
discouraged me further. The friends also dissuaded
me by sarcastic smile. So, I got vexed and I gave it
up dejected.
     A few years passed ; again there was the urge to
learn scientifically instead of committing to memory
the rules and reproducing them like a parrot. Even
then while studying, I came across certain portions
which appeared to be just contrary to what is men-
tioned by another author. I did not find any improve-
ment ; confusion continued and I was actually
perplexed. Probably the science is a difficult, compli-
cated and intricate one.
     Can you kindly tell me. Sir, whether I shall learn
astrology and master it, so that I can be useful to
others by offering correct predictions and thereby
                            23

•earn good name and fame some day. Or am I to
 consult others ? If I can learn this subject, it will
"be posssible for me to edit books on astrology, after I
thoroughly understand it, so that I may be able to
impart higher knowledge to students.
      These common queries are answered here so that
 it may be useful for students who experience similar
-difficulties and who have the keen desire to learn. This
inagazine is published with the object that it would be
 possible to regularly deal with the subject of astrology1
jfrom the rudiment and explain exhaustively so that
 there will be clarity; no portion will be vague, nor
 will there be contradictory indications and the predic-
 tions given will never confuse the readers. Whenever
-articles are contributed by scholars and published in
 the mothly issues, the editor's views will be given either
agreeing with them or clarifying such portions which
 need further explanation.
       Astrology is, no doubt, mysterious and abtruse.
 It deals with the'relation of the Planets in the Heavens
.and the occurrences on the Earth.
       (1) The students of astrology have to acquire
 sufficient knowledge in astronomy.
       (2) They have to be good in elementary mathe-
.matics. They can't afford to commit any mistake at
■all in their calculations.
       (3) They should be capable of preparing the
 horoscopes accurately using the correct Ephemeris
•(Raphael's).
       (4) They have to study various books on
-astrology published by scholars and also the original
■ones propounded by our sages.
      (5) They have to think, think and think, analyse,
understand the spirit of the rules, apply and finally
oome to a conclusion.
                            24

     (6) Fulfilled and unfulfilled predictions are to-
be recorded.
     (7) when a prediction comes true by adopting
certain principles, one has to follow the same.
     "Often people approach my Guru and express
their difficulties."
     (8) Also one is to find out what modification is.
needed for such a method which failed.      One need not
be discouraged by failures to start with. No, child can,
run a race without falling down many a time while
attempting to walk in infancy. No cyclist by himself
learnt cycling without any scratches and bruises on his
body. If any experienced cyclist were to assist him.
while learning he may avoid injuries. So also a Guru,,
by the side of the student who predicts, will guide
and correct him whenever necessary. This gives zeal to
the student as he comes out successful.
     (9) Study circles and astrological groups are to be
formed to discuss various problems and clear doubts.
     (10) One has to predict after thoroughly under-
standing the querist's temperament. There are some
who do not like to hear evil. Even in such cases, the
astrologer should mention the evil but express it in a very
mild form. Does not a physician give sugar-coated pills
to the patient who dislikes bitter medicine. He gives the
medicine alright; but does not allow him to feel the
bitterness.
     The astrologer should not guess. But he should
possess the power of correct judgment-and inter-
pretation. He should have a good vocabulary and
should use appropriate words. Intuition has to play
its part for which devotion to God, and prayers wif/i-
out any disturbance are needed. The Astrologer should
enjoy peace of mind and be above want. He should
have no worries at all. To be a leader among 'astro-:
                           25

logers, one should be able to argue, convince and
establish the correctness of his predictions.
      It is for the public to certify whether one is an*
able astrologer or not; whether one can offer astounding
predictions or not. It is unbecoming of an astrologer to-
boast himself as an expert except on such occasions,
when it may be absolutely necessary to create faith ia
others and impress upon them what he wants to convey,.
An astrologer should not be over-confident; he should
be calm; should apply correct principles, follow many
methods, and give clear indications. He should not
exaggerate facts etc.; otherwise he invites trouble-
later. He should never forget his limitations.
       There was an astrologer named Mr. H. Musgrove-
He was born in Quebec, on 29-10-1869. Whenhewas 47
years old he predicted that he could correctly locate the:
place, where gold would be found in large quan-
tities, by using his knowledge of astrology. He persu-
aded many people to invest money in gold mining in
British Columbia. All of them were anxiously expec-
ting to come by the treasure. Unfortunately, the predic-
tion failed miserably, due to the bad luck of the
investors; they were utterly disappointed. Ultimately
the astrologer was imprisoned,.
      The Astrologer should understand psychology also..
A lady was much worried for having four issues at mini-
mum intervals and all of them were girls.     Again she.
was'in the family way. If an astrologer, simply to please
her, were to say that she would have a boy, he runs,
double risk. Because, if again a girl is born to her, it
is no wonder that the astrologer is not only abused by-
the party , but also anti-propaganda will be carried on-
by. a few of them in season and out of season as they
are (1) disgusted and (2) disappointed. If the astrolo-
ger had told that she could expect a girl on this occa-
sion also and if a boy is bom generally in their joy,.
                            26

the astrologer is excused. But if a girl is born as pre-
dicted, they will appreciate the science and wait for
"better luck at least next time.
      Incorrect predictions bring ridicule to the science
 and also misfortune to the astrologer. One should be
 tactful also. It is advisable to predict correctly not
forgetting one's future, or better confess and dispose
of the querists saying that he has not specialised that
particular branch of the science.
      One can be an astrologer, if one's horoscope
satisfies many of the following conditions. Uranus is
traditionally (according to Westerners) the strongest
planet to give knowledge in astrology. Hindus take
Mercury (Budha) as the planet which creates interest in
•astrology. In fact, all prominent astrologers have not
had Uranus always strong in their horoscopes. But, it
will be seen that Saturn and Mercury have much to do
with astrology. (Have we not heard the usual proverb
*' Aye! that fellow has Saturn in the tongue ? Vakkil-
Sani. Ever he predicts evil and never, he fails.)
      Mr. Carter warns those in whose charts Mercury
 •and Jupiter are heavily afflicted to be very cautious
 when they forecast. From that, one' can understand
 that Mercury should not be afflicted, as it is the astro-
logical planet. He also says that Uranus is unsuited to
 practical exigencies, as one will commonly lack tact
•and patience which are the essentials for an astrologer.
 One is to be practical. Earthy signs, and Planets, Mars
 and Saturn make one useful, andpractical. Planets in airy
isigns may make the one unpractical and dreamy. Fiery
 usually produce practical people but not always pru-
 dent or discreet people. Those born in Tbulam.(Libra)
-an airy sign, may employ themselves in flattering others
-and often fall easy victims to it. Astrologers should
 not under any circumstances flatter others and exagge-
rate things.
                             27

      People having a planet in Kumba or Meena
<Acquarius and Pisces) afflicting Uranus in any part of
the map, will be unconventional, original and
 Bohemian. They may disregard the established custom
 and ancient tradition and may be perverted.
      But people, having any of the following combina-
 tions and favourable aspects, can learn astrology and
 be useful to the querists.
      1. Western scholars are of opinion that Saturn
 and Moon give immense appetite to learn astrology
"especially when they are in 1, 3, 9 or lOthBhava
 (Houses). Saturn and Moon make the native indus-
 trious, honest, patient, plodding and persevering all of
 which are essential to an astrologer.
      2. Uranus has a special attraction to Astrology.
 But success or failure depends on the other aspects
 which Uranus receives. It may make one a research
•scholar or a perverted person with much of egoism,
 whereas astrology is meant more to subdue egoism.
      3. Good aspects and connection between Jupiter,
 Mercury and Uranus assist 'one to consider deeply.
Judge properly and interpret correctly.
      4. Mars' beneficial aspect to those planets gives
 the astrologer the argumentative faculty, the desire to
 succeed in the material field, and to lead in all pursuits.
       5. Only when Moon and Mercury have harmonious
  aspects, one can have clear exposition, proper wording,
  good vocabulary and intuition. Moon is called the
  mind. It is like a mirror exactly reflecting the object.
. Mercury is for supreme intelligence, as it governs the
  central nervous system. It is like a lens. Therefore
  whenever these two planets either form or receive
  favourable aspects, they give high imagination,
  linguistic ■ capability, keen observation,     intuitive
  perception, quick grasp, retentive power, reproductive
                           28

ability, fluency of speech and general success especially
in astrology. So, those who have strong Mercury will
thoroughly analyse, properly apply and correctly
predict.
     6. Saturn and Mercury forming good aspect in-
one's chart give concentration and depth of. thought.
The native will be exact, precise and methodical.
He will be a good mathematician with competence in
calculations. He will have much forethought, persis-
tence and reasoning ability.
    7. Venus conjoined with Uranus- can give one.
the desire to learn astrology. A few may have titles-
conferred on them, if Venus and Uranus receive good
aspects from Saturn, Moon and Jupiter.
     8. Good aspect to Jupiter from other planets-
removes worries, and allows one to pray to God..
Harmonious aspect of Mercury and Saturn is needed
for concentration.
      9. In Horasara, Prithuyasas says that the person
at whose birth Moon occupies Cancer (Kataka) will,
be an astrologer. It do'es not mean that-all, Cancer
borns will learn, astrology or at least have faith in
astrology. Here one is to combine the Western System
of prediction and find out the aspect that is being
formed between the position of Moon at birth in.
Cancer and that of Saturn, Mercury and Uranus in the
chart. If Uranus were "to form adverse aspects with
Moon, one will be perverted. If Mercury afflicts-
Moon, one will utter falsehood or whatever one triefr
to predict will not come true, especially when the period
one runs, is governed by Moon and Mercury. Moon
afflicted by Saturn does not allow one to concentrate-
nor will he have self-confidence but be diffident.
   . 10 . . Vaidyanatha Dikshitha, in Jataka Parijatham,.
       mentions that people born in the years Prabhava
                             29

-and Kalayukthi will be proficient in astrology. Also
 those born in Sathayam or Sathabheeshaik nakshatra
•and those born in SakunaiKarana will be astrologers.
 Here also, one is to take that all people born
■either in Prabhava or Kalayukthi year or Satha-
 bhishak Star or Sakuna Karana, unless they have
-good aspects among Moon, Mercury, Saturn and
 Uranus, cannot learn astrology and predict correctly.
    11. Mahadeva, in Jataka Tatva, has said that
people having Venus and Mercury in the 2nd or the
3rd house or,
     12. People having Mercury in 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10
or 11th house or
       13.   People bom in Gemini, having exalted Jupiter,
-and
     14. Those who have the lord of the Second house
in good strength will be good astrologers.
     Even though in the majority of cases these rules
will come true, yet, due to other evil aspects, a few may
not have ahy desire to learn astrology and a few may
-even ridicule it due to the affliction.
             Often wise people say,
             "Gathanu Gathiko Lokaha
             Na Lokaha Paramarthikaha ".
      By that, they mean that one should not blindly
follow the rules expounded but take pains to find out
-the truth and understand their spirit.
      Therefore it is necessary for one to take all these
 into consideration to find out whether the planetary
aspects are beneficial to learu astrology and then decide
 who can make the best use of it by consulting learned
•and wise astrologers.
                              30

     Editing and predicting are different. Prediction i&
the real problem. Editing is not difficult. If Jupiter,.
Mercury and Mars have favourable aspects one can edit
and publish, because Jupiter's aspect to Mercury
produces journalists who need command of language, a.
somewhat encyclopaedic range of knowledge and deep
knowledge of one particular subject. It is desirable to-
have a delicate touch on the pulse of the public
for whom the journal is published. Jupiter assists in
rendering the matter in the publication suited to the
needs of the readers and makes it popular. If the
editor keenly desires to impart information of an.
educative type. Mercury should be favourable and strong..
     If Mercury, and Mars form evil aspects, the editor
will like to fight, if not in reality, yet in words. If both
the planets occupy favourable signs, then the capacity
for satire will be a useful asset to him. Mars forming:
good aspect with Mercury gives good humour and the
fortune to own a Press, as Mars indicates machinery
and Mercury, paper, news, etc.
      Guru's beneficial aspect increases the income,
improves the standard, expands the business, improves
the circulation, and makes the journal popular. Satu-
rn's evil aspect will restrict the activities and increase
the debts. Further, there will be labour trouble or the
release of the journals will be unduly delayed and.
people will get vexed, and dejected. Neptune's evil
aspect shows that every venture will be started in.
a flash which will soon end in a crash.
     Lords of 2, 9 and 11 forming good aspects mutu-
ally among themselves and with the great benefic:
Jupiter will offer the most desirable results both to the
astrologer and the consultant as well as. the Editor and
the readers.
        SEVEN AND ITS SANCTITY

      SEVEN AGES OF A MAN
      SEVEN DAYS OF A WEEK
      SEVEN LORDS OF THE ZODIAC
      SEVEN SAGES OF THE POLE
      SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM
      SEVEN COLOURS OF THE LIGHT
      AND SEVEN NOTES OF THE MUSIC

                     KAYESKAY
    What is the sanctity in the number seven ?
     Those who believe in Reincarnation have to accept-
that one lives one's life, and it comes to an end at one-
time or the other and again takes another life accor-
ding to one's Karma and will of God. God never
does himself by taking an avathar, but does every-
thing through some agency. Similarly, when one's
life is to end, i.e., when another life is to start
shortly, at that time, somewhere a couple lead a happy
life and the gentleman in due course becomes the
father. Sun is said to be the Chief Governor for
father in astrology. Therefore a father's pleasant,
days are, in reality the last scene of all which ends-
the eventful history of man in another body and
the (his) second childishness, sans eyes, sans teeth
and sans everything. This stage is represented by
Sun. It rules the sign Leo—Simha~the King of the-
animals. It represents the Epoch or conception. It
is the 5th house of the Zodiac denoting procreation
and progeny. Sun rules over Sunday.
     The' adjacent sign .is Cancer—Katakam. It is.
ruled by Moon.' Moon is a .watery or milky planet.
It represents the infant stage of a person when the
child takes .. mill? and liquid diet alone and cries,.
                           32

Tjawls and vomits which is the first stage in the new
life. Cancer denotes mother and nursing. It is in the
infant stage that the child is under the care of the
mother—moon, which governs Mondays.
   ~ The adjacent signs are Gemini (Mithuna) on one
 side, and Virgo (Kanni) on the other. Their owner is
 Mercury—(Budha), which presides over mind, memory,
 powers of speech and writing, paper, bags, books,
 education, mathematics, etc. If Mercury is afflicted,
 lying and thieving are indicated. Similarly, the child
 grows and it appears with a satchel, books, etc. A
 few, with planet Mercury or signs Gemini and Virgo
 afflicted, creep like snail unwilling to go to school.
 They will not mind uttering a lie, saying that they
 had been to school, even though on the way, they
 might be playing with others and returning home only
 at the time when the beneficial Mercurians return after
.attending the classes. Mercury rules over Wednesday.
      The signs adjacent to Gemini and Virgo are
 Taurus and Libra respectively—(Rishaba and Thulam).
 They are governed by Venus, the chief Governor for
 matrimony. Shakespeare explains this stage as a lover
 who sighs like a furnace with a sorrowful ballad made
to his lover's eyebrow. If Venus (Sukra) is spqiledj the
 matrimonial life becomes unbearable and unpleasant
.and one becomes irritated and frustrated. Venus
 governs Friday.
      In the next stage one becomes desperate and
-attaches no value to life.   One is prepared to.face
 even death. Or one would like to walk out of the
 house and try to be a soldier full. of strange oaths,
 sudden and quick in quarrel, seeking „ the bubble
-reputation even in the cannon's mouth. Astrologipally
the Planet which denotes,, the God of War is
Mars who rules the signs next to Jaurus and Libra
(Rishaba and Thula) on either side: They are Aries
                            33

 •{Mesha) and Scorpio (Vrischika) owned by Mars
 ■who rules over Tuesday also. It gives independent
■spirit, courage and impulse for all herioc deeds. It
 is the Chief Governor for warrior which is the next
 1st age of man according to Shakespeare.
        Having lived the life of a husband and enjoyed
  the happiness or undergone the trials in domestic life,
 -one also gains the experience of a warrior. Now he
 becomes wise and passes on to the next stage. He
 judges the merits and demerits and runs a calm,
  happy life with good morals and conduct.              He
  possesses wealth and gains reputation. He eats much
 •and leads an easy life. His belly goes on swelling.
  This stage is ruled by Jupiter (Guru) who is the lord of
 Thursday! Shakespeare says that this stage is the judge
 ■with huge round belly with good capon lined, full of
  wise saws and modern instances.
        Jupiter owns the houses adjoining those of Mars.
 They are PISCES (Meena) and Sagittarius (Dhanus).
        As years pass on, this also causes worry. Due to
 •over-weight, low blood pressure Sets in. Doctor advises
. the subject to take only vegetables, etc. His weight
 has to be reduced. He should become slim and lean.
 He gets reduced to fiesh and bones due to other chronic
   ailments also and has consequently mental depression.
 Optimism of Jupiter ends : pessimism of Saturn starts.
  There may be trouble due to prostate gland ; there may
 'be obstruction in urine and retention of waste mate-
  rials ; teeth may begin to drop one after another thus
  disfiguring the face. Symptoms of old age set' in.
 -Cataract may develop and reduce the vision. Laziness
   does not allow him to have a shave and so his hairs;
   grow into beard etc.; all are ruled by Saturn which is
   also the lord of Saturday. Astrologically, Saturn is the
Chief Governor for longevity, emaciation, falling of
  .teeth, chronic disease, mental depression, etc. This
                            34

Shakespeare mentions as the stage of the lean and:
slippered old man with hanging spectacles on the nos&
and pouch on side.
     Thus the seven stages of man are governed by the-
seven planets which can be seen with the naked eye,,
which rule the seven days of the week.
      Infancy is governed by Moon and schooling is*
governed by Mercury. Venus shows the age of maturity
mystery when life is a riddle. The next period is.
governed by Mars showing boldness with a go-ahead,
spirit. The next stage is ruled by Jupiter which matures-
one's character. ■ The subject can judge impartially, be-
level-headed, calm and wise. Finally one begins to-
retire from activities and settle down to develop'fixed
habits and to dwell in the pleasant memories of his
youth, etc.
     The above stages show the steady development of
one's human faculties, greater or less, depending on
one's Karma. 'Thus Shakespeare has explained the-
truth in his drama "AS YOU LIKE IT". .Astrologi-
cally' it is correct that one's life can be broadly divided,
into Seven Stages and each is indicated by a particular;
Planet.
      The wonder is that these Planets_are allotted signs
in the Zodiac in the same order., Alsb'this order agrees:
with the real situation oftherPlanets to the luminaries^
Sun and Moon are the luminaries: Mercury is the-
nearest Planet to the Sun being 360 lakhs of miles away;
and Venus 670 lakhs of miles away. Only.these are-
between Sun and the Earth. Next, at a distance greater
 than that between the Sun and the Earth are Mars^
 Beyond this is Jupiter. The farthest planetlthat can be;
seen with the naked eye is Saturn. Thus the houses are
owned by Planets in the order they are in the. Heavens
 and they, in the same order, denote the-various ages im
man's life.
                    THE EARTH

     The earth, which is our home, offers a deceptive
appearance, as though it is flat, plain and circular, with
its boundary, the horizon. But it is actually round,
like a ball.
      Galileo used the interesting and simple.rmethod to
prove that the earth is round like a sphere.- He
observed the face of the earth during lunar eclipse and
noted the shadow of the earth on the .moon. It was,
as it is seen even now, distinctly circular. The eclipse -
of the moon may last for some hours. Yet due to the
spinning of the earth, its circular shadow on the moon
remains, during the duration of the eclipse. It does
not get changed.
     Another proof is that, if a person commences his
journey from one place—say Madras—and moves in
the same direction, either due East or due West or due
North or due South without changing his course, he
will return to his starting place, i.e., Madras itself.
It will be just like an ant, proceeding in any one
direction on an apple or on a lime fruit, returning to
the same starting point-
     There is also a direct proof, after so much
advancement of the science. . If one looks at the "earth
from a far-off place, in space, away from the earth,
one will find that the earth appears like a ball. We, ,
on the earth, cannot note it. But photographs taken
from a great distance by the Rockets which are fired up
will show the curvature of 'our earth quite clearly and
distinctly.
     If it becomes possible for one to go to the Moon,
take the photograph of the earth and send it on to us.
                           36

we will find that the earth is round and will appear, just
like what the Sun and the Moon appear to be, to us,
on earth, but a little bigger in size.
      Only by. such methods, one can prove that the
 earth is round and looks like a big ball. The earth is
 about 7,900 miles in diameter and is about 24,847
 miles in circumference. No one had ever gone around
 the earth with a measuring tape or pole and actually
measured "it. It was computed by our sages and also
by Eratosthenes in Egypt thousands of years ago.
Eratosthenes took the angular elevation-height at which
 the Sun appeared at the same time from two cities
situated at a fairly long distance, say 500 miles. He
found the difference in the angle of vision: The world
is round, i.e., 360°. So he calculated the distance
between these two cities and took the difference in the
angles for calculation. He divided 360° by this
difference in the angles of vision and multiplied the
result by the known distance between these two cities.
Similar calculations were made on different occasions
and all the results were found to be the ■ same. Thus
the circumference is worked out. Then the diameter is
calculated as it is impossible to measure it. There is
the definite mathematical relationship between the
diameter of a circle and its circumference (22/7). So
the diameter is also arrived at by using the formula
that circumference when multiplied by seven and the
product divided by twenty-two gives the diameter. , "
     The circumference is not the same at all places on
the earth. As a result of rotation, the earth is bulged
at the equator and flattened at both the poles.- .That is
why the earth looks like an oblate spheroid.
     The earth is ever spinning. It moves in space.
It was worked out in 1727 by Bradley " that the'earth
sails in the space at a speed of nearly 18£ miles , or
                           37

nearly 30 K.Ms, per second. It comes to nearly
66,000 miles, equivalent to nearly one lakh K.Ms, per
per hour, i.e., about 586,000,000 miles in a year. It is
really very hard to believe. Can these figures be a
fact? Doubt arises. Because, it does not appear to
any one that the earth is ever moving non-stop and
that also at this tremendous speed. If one stands
outside and looks around the buildings and various
objects, the earth, neither looks like a ball, nor does it
appear to him to move, nor docs he feel it. But he
finds a smooth surface, or hills and mountains appear-
ing to be perfectly still.
     But when he looks at the sky during day time, the
Sun appears to rise in the East in the morning and set
in the West in the evening. If he looks at the sky at
night, he finds a few bright stars and many faint ones,
scattered at randon and moving from East to West,
again appearing once more just like a large number of
soldiers maintaining the same relative positions, and
marching forward in the same direction. The sky
appears to be a greater sphere enveloping the earth,
and the stars appear again and again, day after day,
month after month, year after year. The Heavens, the
theatre, the scene and the actors of to-day are the same
ones which oar ancestors saw thousands of years ago.
People in olden days traced pictures of the heavens ;
the Egyptians drew on Papyrus, the Americans painted
on buffalo skins, the Greeks carved on marbles and the
Babylonians marked on stones.
     They found that the very fact that all the heavenly
bodies continue the process of rising, setting, and again
rising and so on, should not be due to the motion
belonging to them. It is because the earth itself rotates
Eastward, i.e.,from West to East. The observer on the
earth is rotating along . with the earth and to him the
heavens appear to move in the opposite direction, from
                             38

  East to West. Suppose, one takes one's seat on a
  revolving chair and sees people all around, standing at
  different distances. When the chair makes a round
  without one's knowledge, from West to East, then the
■ people will appear as though they move from East to
  West. Have we not noticed while moving in a train in
  a particular direction, the trees and posts on either side
  of.the railway line appear to move in the opposite
  direction? Thus the sky makes a funny impression
  upon us, to people at different latitudes, i.e., places in
  the northern and in the southern half of. the earth, the
  sky offers a different stage and actors. It is due to
  the fact that the earth is round and it spins round on
  its axis which is tilted by 23° 27' to the vertical in
  space.
       If one observes daily the sky at the extreme
  North, he will notice a-bright star ever remaining in
  the same place, whereas a few immediately near round
  it; many in the middle of the sky rise in the East, pass
  over the head and set in the West, and so on. For
■ observers in the Equator, i.e., the middle Of the earth,
. one star in the North will appear to touch the northen-
  most point of the horizon and remain there permanen-
  tly without rising or setting, but' appearing all the
  hours of the night in the same position. It is called
  the Pole Star.
      But if the observer proceeds from the Equator
due North, he will find that the fixed star, viz.,"
that Pole star, moves slowly upwards in the horizon
and also southwards in the sky. If he continues to
proceed further, at a particular place, he will find this
star, just ver his head.
     If.the journey is made still further, it will be sur-
prising to observe that the Pole star does not proceed
towards .South in the sky but retraces and takes a
                             39

northern course and goes away from the observer.
Thus, by making to and fro movements in that area
itself, one can fix the exact place which is just below
<he North Pole Star. This place or point on the earth
ds called the North Pole. Similar experiments will aid
■one to fix the South Pole of the Earth.

     For people in the North Pole, there is no East or
West. They have only one direction, i.e., South.
Similarly for people in the South Pole, there is no East
or West but only one direction, i.e.. North.

       During Summer, between March 21 and September
 22, the shadow of a person in the North Pole will
.appear moving round and round himself. Because the
 Sun does not incline to the horizon throughout the day,
 as it does in other latitudes, but takes a course almost
 parallel to the horizon. The Sun never rises above
 23^° for people at the Poles. The shortest shadow at
.the Pole is at least 2,3 times the height of the object,
 on and around June 22nd casting the shadow, which i
equal in lengh to the shadow we may have, some 1£
 hours after sunrise in our locality. Thus one can fix
 the position of the North Pole, and similarly of the
 South Pole which are the extreme North and extreme
:South points of the earth.

     If one imagines to insert a rod in the North Pole
anddrive it straight to the centre of the earth and further
more pile it, then it will find its exit in the South Pole.
This is the real diameter of the earth and is called the
Axis of the earth about which the earth revolves from
West to East with a uniform motion of about 1,040
miles an hour at the Equator, and thus covers the
25,000 miles of circumference of the earth in about 24
hours."
                           40

     TO LOCATE A PLACE ON THE EARTH
      To fix the position of an object in a plane, we-
have to divide the plane by drawing 2 sets of parallel;
lines at equal intervals, perpendicular to each other.
If it is to be located, draw lines passing through the
object " A " parallel to the lines of reference.
     Now take OX and. OY the two lines, one longi-
tudinal and the other perpendicular to it as the lines of
reference. Note where " A" lies in the horizontal
line and also in the perpendicular one. The number of
these lines, say 6 and 5 will locate and fix the position
of " A       These numbers are . termed as " Co-ordi-
nates " of A. "C'is called the origin. OX is the
axis of reference horizontally and OY. is the axis of
reference vertically. This method is used to find out
and fix the position of any point in the plane.
     But it is not so easy, to locate places on the sur-
face of the earth, as it is a sphere. Join North Pole
and South Pole by any straight line. Or imagine to-
join North Pole and South Pole by the axis. Draw
lines, perpendicular to the North Pole and the Souths
Pole at all distances on the surface of the earth. Then,
the lines EW; El, W1 ; E2, W2; cut the earth in circles..
Of these circles, that which is exactly half-way betweeir
the two poles is the biggest circle and its centre is tht
centre of the earth. This imaginary line called
Vishavareka is termed as the Earth's Equator. . Hence
Equator is ah imaginary line on the surface of the earth
running midway between the two poles. North and'
South, dividing the earth exactly into two halves, the
northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere.
     To all the lines EW, El, W1; E2, W2 and so ont
imagine that perpendicular lines are drawn on the
surface of the earth. Those lines will invariably pass-
                           41

through the North Pole in the North and the South.
Pole in the South. They also form circles having the
centre of the earth as their centre. Those perpendicular
circles are called Meridians, Therefore Meridians are
the imaginary lines an the surface of the earth drawn
perpendicular to the equator passing through the North
Pole and the South Pole.

    .To locate the position of a place on the surface of
the earth, it is necessary to have any one circle EW East
to West selected for reference and any one perpendi-
cular Meridian also.
     In India, in olden days, TJjjain was the place of
reference. But now, for the whole world, Greenwich is
taken internationally for reference. A meridian is
drawn through Greenwich, i.e., a perpendicular is
dropped to the Equator from Greenwich.            It is
projected on both sides." This line-meridian passes
through the North Pole and South Pole. Let this
meridian cut the equator at "OIf a place "D " is
to be located draw a perpendicular from D to the
Equator. Let it cut the Equator at "X". Refer from
the point O longitudinally along the Equator till the
point "X" where the meridian drawn through "D",
cuts the Equator. This length. OX is called the
Longitude of the place " D
    Then for the other measurement1 perpendicular to-
Equator, measure the arc XD or OD which is called
the Latitude. Longitude may be East or West of
Greenwich, whereas Latitude (Akshamsa) is North or
South of the terrestrial Equator.
     Greenwich is chosen for reference (i.e., the
Meridian passing through Greenwich); Longitude and1
Latitude are the co-ordinates of a place on the surface
of the earth.
                            42

         The earth is round.       The distances are not
  measured in miles. But,as the lines drawnform circles,
  they are divided into 360°. Hence, if one were to
  stand in North Pole and were to look in the direction
  of Greenwich and then turn his head towards the place
  to be located, how far, one has to turn, is measured as
  Longitude. It is the angle that is formed in the Poles,
  i.e., the angle formed by the Meridian passing through
 •Greenwich and that passing through the required
  place, this is called the Longitude of the place.
        The line of meridian passing through North Pole
 and South Pole also form a circle of 360°. This is
 divided into 4 equal parts. Hence Equator to North
 Pole is 90° and Equator to South Pole is 90° on one
 hemisphere; so also in the other hemisphere ninety and
 ninety degrees. Longitude will be between 0° to 180°.
 East or West, whereas latitude will be between 0° to 90°
 North or between 0° to 90° South. The Longitude is
.also expressed as so many degrees, minutes and seconds
 East or West of Greenwich. It is also reckoned in time
 at the rate of 24hours or 1,440 minutes for the 360° or
 4 minutes for every degree.
       If one actually measures the distance of 2 places
 on the equator situated 1° away, it will be longer than
 the distance between two places situated in higher
 latitudes, even though they are said to be only 1° apart
 from each other.' . As one proceeds northwards qr
 southwards of the Equator, he will find the length of
-each degree of longitude getting.reduced and reduced.
  r,. Suppose one wants to know the location,of Delhi.
 Then it is measured how far North it is from the
 Equator and how far East from Greenwich. If a
 reference is made to the index, in an atlas or to the
map of India, it will be found to be 28° 38'' North and
11° 12' East. If New York is To be located, one is
-to note how far north it is from the Equator and
                             43

   how far West from Greenwich. If a place in Australia
   is to be fixed, measure how far South it is from the
   Equator and how far east it is from Greenwich.
         If Delhi is said to' be 77° 12' East and 28° 38'
   North, it means that it is 77° 12' East of Greenwich.
   The arc of the Equator between the points where the
   meridians through Greenwich and Delhi cut is 77°
   12', i.e., 77° 12' longitude East. The arc of the Meridian
   through Delhi, measured from Delhi to the point where
   the meridian cuts the Equator is 28° 38' which is its
   Latitude.
        If longitudinally the measurement is made both
   eastwards and westwards, 180° East will coincide with
 . 180° West. Both will coincide and they are one and the
 ;same line which will cross the Pacific'Ocean from the
   Aleutian to the Fiji Islands. It is called the Interna-
. tional. Date Line. ■ (Here each new day has its birth at
   the moment when it will be exactly noon of the
   preceding date at Greenwich, or .exactly 5-30 P.M.
   I.S.T. (That is why Ephemeris is worked out for 12
   Noon Greenwich* which is the real birth of the next
  day for the people in the International- Date Line and
  also'for the world). This line has been exactly defined
   by International agreement Here lies the threshold of
  our calendar.
      It is from this point, everydayj every month and
 every year starts. Each.day of the month commences
 here earlier than anywhere else in this world. From
 here it marches West, circumnavigates the Globe and
 again returns to its birth place to vanish and appear as
 the next one. In olden days, before this.International
 Date Line was established, the mariners who circumna-
 vigated the globe miscalculated the days. Because,
 when one sails continuously westwards, he follows the
 Sun in its path and at the time he returns to the point
■ofiiis departure, he should gain 24 hours upon those
                           44

who remained there; one should calmly think over
this truth for a while when he will be convinced and
agree. Therefore if one sails for some days from East
to West he loses a day and one has to add a day if he
sails from West to East. In other words, one should,
when travelling East, have to count one and the same day
twice, just when he crosses this International Date Line.
      The Date Line as is agreed by the nations does not
exactly coincide with the 180th meridian everywhere.
For convenience, the whole of Eastern Siberia has the
same dale and the extreme Aleutian and Hawaian
Islands have the same date like the other Islands of
those groups and the United States.
     Fiji and Chatham Islands have the same date as
Australia and Newzealand, because these places are
closely connected politically and geographically. Hence,
the Date Line is slightly irregular though it follows
very closely 180° meridian.
      A surprising thing is that the total duration of a
day in the entire globe is 48 hours and not 24 hours.
It is a fact. Suppose you are within a few miles West
of International Date Line when the day commences at
midnight, and stay there till 12 noon. Howmanyhburs
have passed ? 12 hours are over on that date. Imagine
that you start flying, always keeping the Sun overhead
and go westward. The Sun is ever above your head, i.e.,
it is 12 noon wherever you fly. So nearly 24 hours you
have flown. Stop a mile East of the International Date
Line. What has happened? First before starting,
12 hours have passed between 12 midnight .and the
following 12 noon. . Then,- wherever you are,..it is
12 noon as you fly at the speed of the earth's rotation.
So far 24 hours you have travelled. You have arrived
in a place just East of International Date Line and the
time is 12 noon at the time of your arrival on the same
day "and date in this place. Take rest for 12 hours to
                           45

complete the day. Another 12 hours you stay here in
the East of the Date line. So 12 hours stay at home, the
place of departure, 24 hours flight around the world
and 12 hours stay here, the place of arrival, make up
a total of 48 hours, though marking the same date and
calling the day by the same name.
    Similarly, a day will be missed if you start just in
the East of International Date Line and proceed to-
wards the West, cross it to reach a place of West of it.
You will lose a day.
      There are so many pleasant, and surprising peculia-
rities. They are not necessary for astrologers. It
is enough if one knows about the Poles, the Equator,
the Longitude, and the.Latitude.
                   THE HEAVENS

     Now let us look at the sky. It appears as though
a hemispherical ball is placed like a cap oa the earth.
You complete the sphere. Then it will appear like a
very huge globe and it is called the celestial sphere. All
heavenly bodies appear to move in the Heavens even
though they are at different distances from the earth.
Suppose there is no obstruction to have a view for a
long distance and if you find people walking along a
road, even though they may not be in the same line,
they will appear to be walking one behind the other in
a line. This is due to the great distance at which the
observer is placed from the moving mass. Similarly,
on account of the large distances, the heavenly bodies,
appear to be situated on a spherical dome. To us it.
appears as a sphere, an imaginary one, with the earth
as centre and the various distances as radius.
     If we produce the axis of the earth both ways
 passing' through the North Pole and the South Pole, it
will meet the horizon in two- points which are called
the Celestial Poles, North and South respectively. In:
reality, the earth revolves from West to East on. its
axis. So the sphere, i.e., the heavens appear to move
in the opposite direction, i.e., from East to West. The-
heavenly bodies seem to make circles on the spher&
perpendicular to the axis.
     If you join all the imginary midpoints between the
North Pole and the. South Pole of the celestial sphere,
it will form a circle. It is called the Celestial Equator.
If the plane of the Equator of the earth is produced to
meet the Celestial sphere, it will cut the sphere in the •
bigger circle which is' nothing but the line joining the
mid-points as obtained above. The Celestial Equator-
is an imaginary line in the heavens, such as the earth's
rotation would cause to be traced but by an infinitely
                           47

long vertical pole, erected at any one point on the--
terrestrial Equator. Technically speaking, it is the pro-:
jection of the earth'sEquator, upon the celestial sphere.
The Celestial Equator divides the heavens into two
halves; the northern hemisphere and the southern
hemisphere.
      Now draw perpendicular lines to this celestial
equator. These will and must pass through the two
Poles. A series of circles perpendicular to the Celestial
Equator drawn will join at the Poles. The Parallel
perpendicular lines will appear similar to the two'
parallel Railway lines appearing to unite at a distance.
Here, the railway lines only appear to join. But in the
Poles they actually join just like the oranges, thicker
in the middle, getting narrower as they near the end.
These circles crossing the Celestial Equator at right
angles and passing through the two poles are called
Declination Circles, enabling one to fix an object,.
North or South of the Celestial Equator.
      To locate the position' of a star or a Planet in the-
Heavens, two circles are necessary. One circle is thh
Declination perpendicular to the Equator. Distance
of objects found in the North of the Celestial Equator
(Nadicrita) is said to be positive and those situated in"
the southern hemisphere are said to be negative; Decli-
nation is called " Kranti " in Sanskrit.
      Now which point in the Celestial Equator and in.
the declination circle is to be ' taken'for" reference, is.
the question. Since these are circles, there should be a
starting, point in each circle.
      If one were to observe the pathway of the Sun, it.
will be seen that the Sun slowly moves from the South,
of the Celestial Equator towards the North nearing the.
Celestial Equator and at one .time crosses the Celestial
Equator during its northern course at one point. Now-
a-days the Sun.crosses this point on the 21st March of
                             48

 ■every year when the night and the day are equal. So,
  that point in the Celestial Equator where the Sun
  crosses it, from South to North, is taken for reference
  and the distances are always measured only in one
  direction (not on both sides from this point), i.e., East-
  ward and complete the circle of 360*. So an object
may be at 10° or 40° or 150° or 359° from this point.
  This measurement is called Right Ascension.        (In the
 earth, the Longitude is measured both East and West of
  the meridian of Greenwich and hence the maximum
■distance that can be recorded is 180°.)
        But in the Celestial measurement, it is between 0°
  and 360° as it is measured in the Eastern Direction
 alone, along the Celestial Equator. If one observes
 the pathway of the Sun, it appears to slide, slowly
move northwards further, for 3 months from the time
  it crossed the Equator and then take a southern course
and cross (from North to South) the. Celestial Equator
 at a point which is exactly 180° away from the point
  where the Sun originally crossed the Celestial Equator
 while proceeding from South to North. These two
points are called Equinoctial Points. The point of
 intersection of the.'Celestial Equator and the Sun's
 annual path (the ecliptic) from South to North is called
  Vernal Equinox and the point of intersection during
5un's motion from the Northito South is called Autum-
  nal Equinox. The vernal equinox is taken as the com-
mencement of the Siin's path or Ecliptic and also the
beginning of the Celestial Equator. They get wider
 and wider upto a quarter of the circle, and then come
 nearer and nearer.       Again they cross through the
 autumnal equinox which is exactly at 180°. Now
also they get widened-for a quarter of a circle and then
-come nearer and nearer and again join the original
point. Thus 360° are covered. ". „         ;i
       It may be due to the fact that most of the
astronomers and administrators of countries and
                             49

  ■colonies are in the Northern hemisphere and also
  "because, only on and from the time the Sun touches
  the Vernal Equinox, those in the North Pole can have
   the Sun rising (after continuous dark period of 6
  months) for their continuous day of 6 months. If the
  Autumnal Equinox is taken, then the night and complete
   darkness will set in and will run for 6 months for people
   in the North Pole. People in the South Pole will
  3iave a day commencing from the time the Sun passes
   Autumnal Equinox till, it reaches Vernal Equinox,
   which is six months for people in the other latitudes.
        To an observer at the North Pole, the Sun, nowa-
  days, will rise on 21st March and will trace circles in
   the heavens, slowly, regularly and gradually increasing
   its altitude till 22nd June without setting in these
   months and reaching the greatest altitude of 23° 27'.
   The Sun moves between 22nd June and 23rd September
   in circles as before but decreasing in altitude and on
   23rd September it begins to set and it describes the
  fhorizon and gradually sinks below and disappears for a
  period of six months, a .
        From 23rd September to 21st March, the Sun will
   be in the southern hemisphere, i.e., to the south of
 ■Celestial Equator. It reaches the maximum southern
  -declination of 23° 27' on 22nd December. This is the
  •perpetual night to pebple in the North Pole. For
  people in the South Pole, these six months are a per-
  petual day.
        The measurement is always made for astronomical
   purposes along and across the CelestialEquator ; this is
  -called the Right Ascension and Declination respectively.
But astrologers use another method of fixing up
planets by measuring along the apparent Sun's anrmal.
  path which is called Ecliptic. The sun appears to move ■
   trictly in the'Epliptic. It is more or less a circle ; it
  cuts the Celestial Equator in two poi nts, diametrically
                            50

 opposite to each other. The Ecliptic is inclined by 23e
 27' to the Celestial Equator due to the inclination of
the axis of the earth. If one observes the movements of
 the Planets, the Moon, Jupiter etc., one will find that
they also move in their individual orbits which are
slightly inclined to the Ecliptic, Therefore, for the use
of astrologers to fix the positions of the Planets, the-
Ecliptic is chosen as the circle of reference. The dis-
tance measured in one direction along the Ecliptic from*
the Vernal Equinox is called Celestial Longitude and
the distance measured perpendicular to the Ecliptic is.
termed as the Celestial Latitude.
     Though the tracks of the Planets are all found to*
lie very nearly along the line, they will be only a few
degrees North to South of it, at the most 7£0 to 8°. The
Celestial Latitude is absolutely different from Declina-
tion except at the two equinoctial points. This measure-
ment is convenient for astrological purposes and is also i
necessary for predictions.
      In short, Celestial Latitude is the perpendicular
distance between a Planet and the Ecliptic {whatever be
the declination of the Ecliptic itself) whereas declina-
tion is the perpendicular distance counted from the-
Celestial Equator to the planet or star. Celestial Longi-
tude is measured along the Ecliptic from, the- Vernal'
Equinox, whereas the Right Ascension is measured along'
the Celestial Equator from the Vernal Equinox in .one:
direction.                                         ^
           '                                  .    * 4. •'
      If two objects are in equal declination - either* -onj:
 the same side of the Celestial Equator or on: oppbsi
sides of it, they are said to be Parallel to each other.
    . Thb readers are advised, to become familiar -witE
 the terms, Celestial Equator, .Ecliptic, Equinox, .Right.
 Ascension, Declination, Latitude. LonaUpde an<£ Paral-,j|
lei as they will be used frequently in. hVmagazine;        '
               i
       DIFFERENT KINDS OF TIME:

                   SIDEREAL TIME.
     Time is measured in many ways. A sidereal day
is the interval between the first point of Aries (Mesha)
appearing overhead or crossing the meridian of a place
and the very next appearance of the first point of
Aries overhead.
     Suppose you note one star-over your head," just
crossing the meridian of your place on any one night at
a particular time, shown by the clock you use which
maintains correct time. The next day also, observe
when the same star crosses the meridian. It will
be found that it returns exactly after 23 hours 56
minutes and a few seconds. On the following day,
again see when it crosses the meridian. It will be
crossing again at an interval of 23 hours 56 minutes
and a few seconds after the previous day's timing, i.e.j
the star crosses the meridian again and again at an'
interval of 23 hours 56 minutes and a .fevv, seconds
after the. previous day's timing. Why is it, about
4 minutes lessnhan 24 hours?- Because this is the
time taken by the earth ■ to revolve exactly • once
completing 360°; actually • the star is fixed and the
meridian chosen for observation is constant. Hence, a
sidereal day is the time taken by the earth'to make one
full revolution with reference to Aries 0° (Mesha) or
with'reference to any particular star. It is about
4 minutes less than 24 hours of our time by the clock.
 y ' If one were to note the transits of the first point
of Aries over one's meridian and those of the'Sim over
the same meridianyrit will be found that, in one year,
 he £§rst^puint^(^Aries crosses 366 times and further
  asses about one quarter of the celestial sphere, where-
                            52

as the Sun crosses only 365 times and passes one
quarter of the celestial sphere. This is because, during
this period, the Sun appears to make a journey along
the ecliptic, i.e., the apparent path of the Sun.
      Suppose on March 21st, one observes the sky
15 minutes prior to sun-rise. He finds a star, a little
above the horizon, in front of the Sun, rising just prior
to the Sun in the East; 15 minutes later, the Sun
rises.
       The next day, when it is observed 15 minutes
 before sun-rise, the star had risen 4 minutes earlier
 than the time of observation and bad come a little up
 in the horizon by 1° whereas the Sun rises at the same
 time, i.e., 15 minutes after the time of observation. If
 the experiment is repeated on the third day at the same
 time, as usual the star is further above and the Sun
 rises only after 15 minutes. If one continues: to
 observe for 10 days, the original star will be at 10°
jibovein the horizon at the time of observation. In
'the meanwhile, another star is found rising just before
 sun-rise yk few days later, this star has come up, a
 third stafrises just before the Sun. In 3 mouths1 time,
 the original star comes.overhead when the Sun is about
 to rise. In 6 months, the original star sets in the West
 when the Sun rises in the East. From the end of the
 sixth month, for another 6 months, this star will not
 be seen at all but actually it chases the Sun and con-
 joins it. To our pleasant surprise, at the end of one
 year after the commencement of the observation,^ the
 original star again appears at the time of observation
 whereas the Sun rises after 15 minutes as it happened;
 year ago.                                        ^
    Thus, the stars, maintaining the relative position^
among themselves constantly move^a§P&d-like a tr&ii^
whereas the Sun appears to move ffdm the EquinO^
                           53

towards one star, leaves it and slowly nears another,
passes it and approaches another and.so on it transits:
Thus it passes from the Equinox, all the stars on
its path (the ecliptic) and finally reaches the same
Equinoctial point in exactly one year.
     If it is reflected calmly, one can understand that
the earth revolves about itself exactly once, in about
3 minutes and a few seconds less than 24 hours. To
revolve exactly once, it has to move 360°, as the
meridian crossing a star or the Vernal Equinox twice
successively means one full rotation of the earth.
      Due to earth's motion in space in its orbit, it
 appears that the Sun moves daily nearly 1° away from
 the Equinoctial in the same direction of the motion of
 the earth or in the opposite direction of the movement
 of the horizon. Therefore, the meridian of a place,
 though it can cross the Equinox by revolving 360°,
 has to move one more degree a day to bring the Sun to
 the meridian since the Sun has slipped along the
 ecliptic one degree within that time. Hence a year
 consists of 365i solar days meaning that the Sun during
 the year appears to observers at any place to describe
.365£ revolutions with respect to its meridian, whereas
 during this time (one year), the Sun makes one revolu-
 tion with respect to the first point of Aries or the
 Vernal Equinox.. So the first point, of Aries (Mesha)
 appears.366J times in a year.
      Suppose there is a train running round and ■ round
in an exhibition. There are. 365 compartments for the
train. The first compartment is provided with a motor;
the last compartment, i. e., the 365th is linked with the
first, thus forming a complete circle. A person takes
his seat ift the centre of the circular route of the train
and looks at a post fixed on the ground from where the
train starts. Suppose anlnspectorchecks the tickets
                           54

and just passes from one compartment to the other,
wherever the engine just reaches the starting point,
after making one round. What happens ? If the engine
has passed the place of departure 30 times, the Inspector
will be going to the 30th compartment; 60 times means
that the inspector will be in the 60th compartment, 180
times means 180th compartment or nearly half, i.e.,
the engine will be near the pest and he will be in the
carriage diametrically opposite to the post. So when
the train compelets 365 revolutions, the inspector
reaches 365th compartment and he has made only 364
complete rounds. When it makes 366th revolution,
both the first compartment of the train and the inspec-
tor will arrive together. Therefore the engine will pass
366 times whereas the inspector crosses only 365 times;
in the same way, the movements of the stars and that of
the Sun happen in the celestial sphere.
     Hence 365J solar days are equivalent to 366£ side-
real days; i. e., the sidereal.day is shorter than a mean
solar day by 3 minutes 56.555 seconds.
     Why we should take mean solar time and not
iapparent one, may also be known.. The question is
whether the Sun is a good time keeper. If: it were, then
there is no necessity of other kinds .of time. Really,-
the Sun is not a good time keeperbecause its motion
along .the ecliptic for the year is irregular. Therefore,
apparent solar days are of unequal duration. The
days vary in length from one place to another, antl
even in the same place during different seasons, and it is
impossible for a watch or a clock to be regulated
according to apparent time. Let us take an example of
the irregularity of the apparent day; it is 51 seconds
longer, i. e., the duration between 22nd December and
23rd December is longer than an apparent day around
the 3rd week of September as measured by the standard
time. The main reason is that the Sun's apparent annual
                              55

-motion along the ecliptic is not uniform but irregular.
The earth's orbit is also not a perfect circle. It is
•eccentric. The earth is about 3 million miles nearer to
the Sun on July 2nd than on 3rd January.
       What happens if it is nearer or farther away ? When
 the earth is relatively nearer the Sun, it goes faster in
  its orbit due to greater gravitation, whereas when the
 -earth is farther away it moves comparatively slower.
  When the earth actually moves faster, the Sun is
 seemingly moving faster too in its motion ; and as the
■earth moves more slowly, so the Sun also appears to
  move equally slowly. Hence the number of minutes of
 arc covered by the Sun in a day in the eastward motion
 along the ecliptic is constantly varying, but averages a
flittle less than 1* a day.
        This is also due to the inclination of the Ecliptic to
 the Equator. The Sun's apparent course is not along
 the Celestial Equator. It is along the Ecliptic which is
  inclined to the Equator by 23° 27'. Time is ever measured
T)y taking the hour angle which is the angle measured
 from the Celestial Pole. It has nothing to do with the
^Ecliptic. Hour, angle is the measurment formed by the
 meridians at the Celestial Pole. Only when the celestial
 equator ahd the ecliptic are parallel and then alone,' 1°
■of solar motion along'the ecliptic means 1° along the
•equator also. This happens on two occasions in a year,
 i. e-, at the time of the summer or the winter solstice,
 when the Sun is at a place where the equator and the
"Ecliptic are for the moment parallel. On other occa-
rsions, the Sun's movement of 1° along the Equator, is
 not 1° along the Ecliptic.. Anyhow, it is the apparent
■eastern movement of the Sun as measured along the
Equator that determines an apparent day.
    Thus it must be clear that the Suri is not a good
dime keeper. So a fictitious dody called the "Mean
                            56

Sun" is invented. It is assumed to have a perfectly
uniform motion eastward along the celestial equator
and not the ecliptic and also to complete a revolution
just the same time that the real Sun takes for an
annual trip along the ecliptic. By so assuming, all the:
days of mean time are precisely of the same length
because of the uniform movement of the mean sun.
along the equator.
   ' In civil life, Mean Solar Time is the basis of time.
From 1925, the apparent day and the mean solar day
commence at midnight, when the Sun will be transi-
ting at lower transit. Prior to 1-1-1925, mean solar'
day commenced at midnight whereas apparent solar
day in astronomy started when the Sun was at the-
upper transit, i.e., noon. Nowadays the astrologer's-
day is made to correspond with the day of civil usage.
     Civil time is the specific use of mean time begin-
ning the day at midnight.
     Our clocks keep solar mean time.' This is set up to-
the mean Sun which is explained above. The clodr shows-
0 hour when the calendar day commences.' "The:
clock is so set up thatit registers.exactly 24 hours by the
time the earth moves about 361°, to catch the Sun
up which it appears to have moved by about 1° in that
one day.                           '
      The sidereal time is the time which is used 'princi-
pally in the astronomical observatory. Its uses, arexin
connection with the transit of the stars and in th§
setting up of the telescope for which the sidereal time is
directly read from a sidereal clock.
     Sidereal time is nearly but not exactly star time.
It is vernal equinox time and it is a measure of the
earth's rotation with respect to the equinox which has-
a very very small retrograde motion. A typical
                            57

sidereal clock has on its dial 24 hours and is adjusted
and rated to sidereal time. If you want to convert your'
ordinary clock to sidereal clock, you make it run fast by
about 3 minutes 55.909 seconds a day by medling with
the spring. This can be achieved. " The hands are set
at 0 hour 0 minute 0 second, when the Sun is exac-
tly at 0° Aries overhead at Greenwich while crossing
the vernal equinox from its southern course to the nor-
thern hemisphere. Every .year the Sun takes this posi-
tion by about 21st March. The sidereal clock shotfs 24-
hours when the earth has rotated once ; but it registers-
4 more minutes (roughly) when the ordinary clock
shows 24 hours. In 2 months, the sidereal time
advances by 4 hours. In 6 months it gains 12 hours-
and in one year it gains exactly 24 hours., i.e., one day..
     The sidereal time is the same as the Right Ascen-
sion being measured along the celestial equator, in the
same way, but using hours and minutes and seconds ins-
tead of degrees, minutes and seconds. The two terms are
easily inter-convertible. One day = 360°; i.e., 24 hours-
 = 360°. .;. 1 hour =15°; 1 minute = 15' of angle. Hence-
if one is known, the other can be calculated.
     If you take an ephemeris, on any particular day,
according to the month of the year,'the sidereal time at
noon given in the first column may be anything from
0 hour 0 minutes 6 seconds to 23 hours 59 minutes-
59 seconds; for it will be evident that the sidereal clock,
gains one whole day in a year.
     In this column, you note the sidereal time at noon,
at Greenwich is the right ascension of the meridian,
at noon, i.e., the distance between the Sun and vernal
equinox. It will be seen that the sidereal time at
noon on March 21st is 0 hour 0 minute when,
the Sun will be in the vernal equinox, and that it-
increases by 2 hours every month. Sidereal time may
                             58

"be taken as the time taken by the Sun to come to
 the meridian after a rise of 0° or vernal equinox, i.e.,
 Mesha 0° passes the meridian of the place. According
 to Sayana System, on 21st March, both the Sun and
 Aries 0° pass the meridian at the same time; after 2
 months it will take 4 hours for the Sun to come to
 the meridian after Aries 0° passes it. After 6 months,
 Aries 0° passes and twelve hours later the Sun passes.
 Thus the interval, between the time when Aries 0° passes
 over a meridian and .the time when the Sun passes it, is .
 the sidereal time which will be found against each day
in the Ephemeris.

       Standard Time: For each country, a Standard'
"Time Geographical meridian is chosen. Clocks are
 adjusted accordingly, to keep uniform time throughout
  the country for convenience in matters pertaining to
 Railways, Telegraphs, Phones, Radio and astronomical
 calculations. In great Britain, the Standard time is the
■Greenwich Mean Time: It is observed over the whole
  of the country instead of the true local time without
 taking 'into consideration how ' far East or West of
  Greenwich a place may be. Lists of standard time in
 all countries are given in certain atlases; and in some
  astrological text books. These.lists will appear also in
 the subsequent issues of this magazine. For India, the
 meridian of 82° 30' East of Greenwich was arbitrarily
■chosen in 1906 and hence the Standard Time for
 India is     hours in advance of Greenwich Mean Time.
  At all places situated on this longitude of 82° 30' the
  Sun. will be at noon at the Zenith. In these places, the
  Sun rises nearly 5£ hrs. earlier than at Greenwich situated
  West of India, (nearly:—variations will occur a little,
  by difference mTthe Longtitudes of the places.) People
 in Japan, and East China observe the sun rising earlier
 than in India as they are to the East of India!. In
 .Arabia, time is later than in India, and still later in
                            59

Paris, London etc. In America which is situated far
West of Greenwich, the Sun rises much later than
at Greenwich.
      Local Mean Time:         The earth moves round
in an eclipse and revolves about itself. Hence, the time
of Sunrise varies from place to place in different
longitudes. The earth revolves 360° in one day. One
 day is divided into 24 hours, or 1,440 minutes. So to
 revolve 1°, it takes 4 minutes. Hence, places in the same
latitude about 1° West of any one place will see the Sun
rising 4 minutes later than at the eastern place. . If
 two places A and B are 15° apart and A is east of
 B, B will note the Sun just rising one hour after
■sunrise at A. Hence" the Local Mean Time is one
 which can be arrived at, after calculating the Longi-
 tude of the place. It is customary to calculate dt, by
 taking Greenwich as the place of reference and fixing
 the longitude of the place. Conversion of Standard time
 to Local Mean time and calculation of the Sidereal
time at any particular moment are to be el^arly
 understood by the students of astrology.

    CONVERSION of the standard time
              TO LOCAL MEAN TIME
     Generally, an astrologer is given the time of birth
of a native in Standard Time, or time by the clock; or
the astrologer may have to make out a map for a
particular moment, e.g., the moment of query, the
moment of any incident, the time of coronation, of
•executing a deed,, registering a company, laying the
•foundation, registering or celebrating a marriage etc.
These times are to be converted to Local Mean Time.
So the Standard Time and the longitude of the locality
are to be noted. From the atlas, he should find out
the Longitude of the place.
                           60

     Ex, 1: Say one is born at 12-15 P.M. I.S.T. (just
after the noon) at Madras on 1-11-1908.
              The Indian    Standard   Time given is
              12-15 P.M.
    Longitude of Madras is 80° 15', i.e., 80£o East.
    Actually, the time at Madras in advance to Green-
wich is only 80Jx 4 min. or 321 min. or 5hrs. 21 min.
    But Indian Standard Time is always 5 hours 30
minutes in advance of G.M.T.
          12-15 P.M. Indian Standard Jime= 12-15—
5-30 = 6-45 A.M. morning at Greenwich."
     Therefore when it is 12-15 P.M. at Madras accord-
ing to Indian Standard Time, the time at Greenwich
is 6-45 A.M.
    To find the Local Mean Time at Madras :
    J«Add 80£ x4 min. or 321 min. or 5 hours 21 min.
to the'Greenwich Mean Time. The time obtajned = 6-45
+ 5-21 = 12-6 P.M. L.M.T. MADRAS:
    Second Method:
      Madras iS^. 15' East of Greenwich.
      Difference in time is 2Jx 4 thin, or 9 min.
      As Madras is West of the chosen meridian 82° SB',
it is to be deducted.
    So, when it is 12 hours 15 minutes P.M. LS.T.jt
means 12-15'-0.9 minutes. = 12 hours 6 minutes P.M.
L.M.T. at Madras. '
    When the Indian Standard Time is said to be 12
hours 15 minutes which is the same time throughout
India, L.M.T. of each place will differ; ■
                            61

     If at 12-15 P.M. I.S.T., there were births at Cal-
cutta, Madras and Mangalore (In India itself) i.e.,
there were 3 births at the same moment. The Local
Mean Time for the child born at Calcutta is to be
calculated as follows : Longitude of Calcutta?8° 24'.
Hence L.M.T. at Calcutta will always be 88?£ x 4 min.
in advance of Greenwich or 353 min. 36 sec.       Birth
at CalcuUa= 12-15 P.M. Indian Standard Time (LS.T.).
Difference between LS.T. and G.M.T. is always 5g hrs.
So Greenwich Mean Time = 12-15 P.M. - 5-30 =
6-45 A.M.
     L.M.T. at Calcutta = 6-45-0 + 5-53-36 = 12-38-36
P.M.
     A more simple method will be as follows: What'
is the Longitude of Calcutta ? 88° 24'.              ]
      To which Longitude is the I.S.T. fixed ?. It is fixed
for 82° 30' East Long. Note the difference between the
longitude of the place and the longitude to which I.S.T.
is fixed. Calcutta is 88° 24'.
               I.S.T. is'fixed to 82° 30'.
      Therefore Calcutta is 5° 54' further East of 82° 30'.
Difference in local time = 5^x4 min. or 23 min.
36 sec. i^idd this :to the time noted at Calcutta;
12-15'+23'36'' = 12-38'36" P.M.
Ex. 3. Birth At Mangalore
   ■ Longitude of Mangalore            is 74° 53' East.
Difference in Longitude (Chosen for Indian Standard
Time and. Mangalore City) = 82°30'—74° S3'= 1° 37'.
Difference between Local Mean Time and Sidereal
Time = 7| 5 x 4 min. = 30 min. 28 sec.
     So, if the birth were to be at 12 hours 15 minutes
P.M. I.S.T., then the Local Mean Time for Mangalore
will be 12 hours 15 minuts. — 30 min. 28 sec. = 11 hours
44 min. 32 sec.- A.M.
                             62

 /. Madras Local Mean Time is 12 hrs. 6' P.M.
    Calcutta Local Mean Time is 12 hrs. 38' 36" P.M.
    Mangalore Local Mean Time is ll hrs. 44' 32" A.M..

      So far, the examples are taken for East Longitude,
i.e., East of Greenwich. Now let us take an example
for West Longitude, i.e.. West of Greenwich.
      A child is born in New York at 3 P.M. of the:
STANDARD TIME ADOPTED in that country. It is
given that, in that country, the Standard Time is 5 hrs.
less than Greenwich Mean Time. In the United States,,
there are 3 different Standard Times. For all places
between 67J0 and 82^° Longitude West, the 75°
Longitude is taken. Hence for such places, 5 hours is
the difference between G.M.T. and New York .Standard.
Time.
     For places between 82T0 ,and 97$° the. Longitude
90° is taken, and hence in such areas. Standard Time
chosen and followed ftom 18-11-1883 is 6 hours behind
G.M.T. Again, forplaces, the Longitude ofiwhich fall,
between 97t0 and 112$°, the longitude 105° is chosen,
and the difference between G.M.T. and the Standard
Time there is 7 hours. For all other localities as the-
Pacific Coast-112^° to West Coast 8 hours is- chosen.
All these were fixed on 18-llrl883.- -
     For a child born in New York, we should note the
Longitude of New York. It is 74° 1' West. WhafiS-
the difference between the G.M.T. and the ..Standard
Time adopted here ? Since New York is between, 671°'
and 82J0, the difference is 5 hours. - ^That'is,' if j.the-
G.M.T. is 12 noon, the Standard Time in New
York will show only 7 A.M.
     The example taken above shows that the birth was
at 3 P.M. at New York, i.e., by the Standard.Time at
                            63

New York, Therefore 5 hours more or 8 P.M. will be-
the Time at Greenwich.
     Convert Standard Time to G.M.T.
     3.P.M. New York Standard Time = 8 P.M. G.M.T-.
74° 1' longitude West of Greenwich is New York.
Hence, difference time = 74 u1,, x 4 min. = 4 hrs. 56 min..
4 sees.
      Hence, deduct 4 hrs. 56 min. 4 sec. from 8 hrs.
      8 hrs.—4 hfs. 56' 4" or 3 hrs. 3' 56" P.M. will be-
 the L.M.T. at'New York. Otherwise, find the difference
between the Longitude chosen and Longitude of New
York.
      Loneitude chosen is 75c. Longitude of New York,
is 74* 1'."                     -
      Difference in time   x 4 min. = 3 min. 5$ sec.
      New York is East of 75°. Hence, add 3 mins,.
56 sec. to the Standard Time noted as 3 P.M.
      Hence L.M.-T. at New York is 3 hrs. 3 min. 56 sec..
    Thus the Local Mean Time is necessary to fik the
meridian, the ascendant and the cusps of all the
houses, when one wants to erect a map for a particular
moment.
     When one wants, to fix the' position of the planets,.
L.M.T. is not necessary. To fix'exactly the lagna or
ascendant, the meridian or the 10th cusp, the Local
Mean Time is needed, so that sidereal time at • that
moment for that Locality can be calculated.
                                           *
    How to calculate sidereal time for any time
           at any Place of Birth on Earth
    1. Local Mean Time is separately noted first.
    2. Next take the ephemeris of that year of birth.-
Turn over that page, in which the sidereal time and the-
                            64

 position as well as the movements of the planets are
:given for the month of birth. Every month is allotted
2 pages. It must be remembered that all figures noted
<iown there, are worked out for 12 noon Greenwich
 time (or the moment of birth of the next day in the
International Date Line).
     Think a while. If sidereal time is given for 12
 noon at Greenwich for each day and if it is observed
that, every day the sidereal time increases by about 4
min. is it not necessary to give corrections (1) for the
time that had elapsed between 12 noon and the time for
which a map is to be erected and (2) for the difference
in Longitude between Greenwich and the place of
occurrence.
      Suppose a child is born at 12 noon at Greenwich
■on l-li-19Q8. Then the sidereal time on that day,
 1-11-1908 at Greenwich exactly represents the sidereal
time at the time of birth of the child. If a child is
"bom exactly at 12 noon on 2-11-1908, then the sidereal
 time will be around 4 minutes greater than on. the
previous day 1-11-1908. If another child is born on
3-11-1908 at 32 noon, the sidereal time that day is
4 minutes greater than on the 2rid and 8 min. greater
than on the 1st noon.
     Therefore for every passing of 24 hrs. the sidereal
time increases by 4 minutes.
     If a child is born at 2 P.M. at Greenwich, then
the sidereal time will be (a) the sidereal time given for
that noon plus the two hours which is the difference
 between noon &nd the birth time L.M.T. and also the
increase in the sidereal time for the lapse of 2 hours.
           . .     2 hrs.    . .        2 hrs.
    i.e., 4 min. x —j— =4 mms. x Trrr—
                   a day                24 hrs
= 4 x 60 sees, x =    10 sees, x 2 = 20 sees.
                           65

      Sidereal time increases by 4 minutes for every 24
hours," 4 minutes is equal to 240 seconds. Therefore in
24 hours, sidereal time gets increased (by 240 seconds;
i.e., for every hour, sidereal time increases by 10
secouds; i.e., for every six minutes the sidereal time is
more by 1 second. Therefore for 2 hours, 2x10 or
20 seconds are to be added. Then add the interval
correction for the interval between previous noon and
birth time L.M.T. and the sidereal time given for noon
plus 2 hrs. 20 seconds gives the sidereal time at the
time of birth which is said to be 2 P.M. at Greenwich.
      Because when the earth revolves once, a day or.
24 hours pass on ; the sidereal time slowly, regularly,
uniformly and steadily increases hour after hour and
in 24 hours, there is an increase of about 4 min. or
 240 seconds. Therefore, for every hour that had elapsed'
after 12 noon, a correction is to be made at. 10 seconds..
 That is, for every 24 hours, 4 minutes is to be added to
the Local Mean Time.
    Suppose a child was born at 12-1-5 p. m. at. Madras
 on 1-11-1908. Note the L.M.T. It is 12-6 p. m. L.M.T.
Note.the sidereal time at 12 noon in the ephemeris
 against that date. Take 1908 'year Ephemeris. You
turn over the page where all particulars are'printed1
 for the month of November. Then you note thaLwhich
 is given against the date of birth. .Here it is '1st. So
 note down the sidereal time given against noon on the
 •1st November, 1908. This is-to be added to the
 interval between tjie previous noon and the time of
 birth in L.M.T. and also the correction for the interval
 at the rate of 10 seconds for every hour. Then the
sidereal time is Calculated if the birth were in Green-
 wich. 'Again think for a moment. The sidereal time is
 given for Greenwich Noon. But noon in Madras had
-already come, i.e., 5 hours 21 minutes before Green-
 wich. Each locality has its own noon, earlier by
-4 minutes than the locality which is West of it by 1°.
                            66

      Hence Madras experiences noon 5 hours 21 minutes;
 earlier, because it is 80° 25' East of Greenwich. Sidereal
 time gets increased by 4 minutes for every revolution of
 the earth, i.e., 360°. In other words, places in different
Longitudes have the sidereal time at noon different at
each place (each longitude) differing to a maximum of
4-minutes; i.e., for every revolution of 360*, 4 minutes of
sidereal time is added for 360°. In the ephemeris, the
sidereal time is worked out for Greenwich noon. The
sidereal time for different longitudes has to be worked
out. If the places are East of Greenwich, then the sidereal
time at noon for that locality will be less than that
given for Greenwich noon. In International Date Line'
which is 180° East, the sidereal time at noon at Green-
wich is given. If an ephemeris is worked out, taking
International Date Line as the place of the reference,
the sidereal time given for that place will ever be
2 min, less than -what will be found in Greenwich
ephemeris.
      The sidereal time at noon at Greenwich and the
sidereal time at noon at a place near Andamans 90°
East' of Greenwich will be always 1 minute less than in
Greenwich. Again for New Orleans which is West of
Greenwich, the noon is to come after Greenwich ; it
will come after the Sun has left Greenwich and moved
go6. That is, it has to make £ of a circle .for one. revo-
lution 90* West.        Therefore,4 sidereal time will be
increasing and hence for 90°" West, one .minute wilt
be the increase and this one minute is to be "added.
      Thus thevsidereal time is to be worked out for each
longitude.
      From the Standard time, convert the time to
Local Mean Time, and note it.
      I. Note the Sidereal Time given for the previous
noon (i.e., for the birth 1 between 12 noon and 12 p. m.
midnight, note the sidereal time given for the same
                           67

date and for the births between 12 p. m. and onwards
till next day 11 hours 59 minutes 59 seconds, find the
sidereal time given for noon of the previous date.
      2. Ascertain whether the birth was in the East
Longitude or the West Longitude. If it is East Longitude,
deduct the number of seconds that will result by multi-
plying the longitude of the place by 2 and dividing the
product by 3. (because 4 mins. = 240 sees, which is
the conection to be made for 360°). If it is West
Longitude, multiply the longitude by 2/3 and the pro-
duct is the number of seconds to be added. If it is
East Longitude, multiply the longitude by 2/3. The
result is the number of seconds to be deducted. This
is die correction for the East Longitude. Now sidereal
time at noon for the place of birth is found out.
     3. Add, to the sidereal time, the interval between
the previous noon and the time of birth inL.M.T. (The
sidereal time given in the ephemeris will be between
0 hour. 0 min. 0 sec. to 23 hours 59 mins. 59 sees.)
     4. Add to this sum, the correction for the interval
between the previous noon and the time of birth at the
rate of 10 seconds for every hour, i.e., one second for
every .6 minutes.
   . Theiigure so obtained. by adding. (1) the interval
and (2) correction for the interval to (3) the sidereal
time at noon as is found, in the ephemeris worked out
to Greenwich noon and then (4) either deducting or
adding the correction for the Longitude depending on
the East .or West of Greenwich respectively, is the
sidereal'time for the moment of birth of a native
whose time of birth is given in standard time and place
of birth is also known. (Without knowing the place of
birth, never start working.)
   :
    Five Examples are given to find out the sidereal
time at birth in five different places.
        ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA




   . I^ Jyothisha Praveena K. S. KRISHNAMURTI


 VOL. 1.                   JUNE 1963                     No. 3.



                           CONTENTS

                                                    Page No.
  1.    Astrology & Athristita                     ... .1

  :2.   The Ephemeris                                       3

        Sidereal Time                                       6

  4.    Signs and Houses                                   14"

  5.    Date from -which Standard Time in use is
         Adopted                                           20

. '6.   Sun—and its govern—Who is Who                      24

   7.   Monthly Prediction (English)               ... .'34

 ■■8.   Monthly Predtction'(TarSiiP~               ;.Y "58

        Ashtama' an'd^Athrishfca                   ,.i    82
      ASTROLOGY           AND      ATHRISHTA

     ' India' is passing through a challenging period
in het1 history. Her rich and powerful heritage in the
scientific-.pursuit of knowledge and life has been laid
aside shd there is a mad chase for wealth without work
or -.equipment. In this period- of spiritual decay and
mental stagnation, the science of Astrology, which had
its legitimate place of honour in the culture and litera-
ture of India, has come in for its share of utter neglect,
questioning or abuse. Itis heartefiihg^'iberefofe/that Shri
KL. S. iCrishnamurthi, popularly kiiotai as " Saidapet
Astrologer" or " Mala Josier ". should have un8ertaken
the arduous task of publishing the aboVe. new monthly
joufnal. This, he has done in a'spifit of dedication
and service, with the primary object" of providing
the basic knowledge on Astrology, in simple language,
to one and all and particularly to the students who are
aspiring to.take up specialised courses in Engineering,
Auditing, Medicine, Law, etc. Astrology, as it were,
is the guide for all disciples of study.
      The first Number is fully illustrative of the rich
 fare that is placed before the reader. The authenti-
 city and validity of the methods of Astrological predic-
 tions are well expounded, in the light of the deep
 research that the author has undertaken as Founder-
President of the Modern Astrological Research Institute,
Saidapet. The Journal will concern itself with autho-
ritative expositions by expert writers on the principles
and practice of Astrology, las a science and jaot as a
commodity for trade, as is'beihg done. The topics will
include astronomical data on Earth, the Heavens,
the Zodiac, the constellations, etc. So much so, the
Journal is expected to be really the source for a
graduated course in -Astrology.       The Journal also
                            2

satisfies the curiosity of the readers as to their future,
with a clear and intelligible reading of ' What the stars
say'.
      The profundity of the knowledge of the Editor
with 40 years of research and experience in Astrology
and the authoritative' articles are bound tQ ensure
successful achievement of the aim of the Journal,-, to
raise the status of the science of Astrology and place
it in its proper place, through appropriate, recognition,
among the disciples of Study in the Universities in
India. In an age of mass production, there is noj
dearth of astrological magazines and raw writings in]
this country. The new Journal strikes a new .path .and;
promises to rise high above this standard and place
before the public in capsule form the noble and respec-
ted science of Astrology as the guiding spirit, behind
 the acquisition of all other knowledge and leading of a
disciplined life.
   The Journal deserves every encouragement and I
commend it to all.
                 THE EPHEMERIS

      The -best available and the most popular ephe-
meris is "Raphael's Astronomical Ephemeris" for
every year commencing from 1st January to the end
of. 31st December.
      Various data regarding the'date, the 'day, the
sidereal time at noon at Greenwich, Sun's Longitude
and'declination, Moon's Longitude,-- Latitude and
Declination and midnight position of-Moon'are. given
on one page. On the adjacent page, ■Longitudet of
Neptune, Uranus, Saturn; Jupiter,':Mars, :Vemis.:and
Mercury will be found. These particulars are"published
in' the lower half of each page. The'data' in the upper.
half of these pages may be taken' for consideration in
subsequent issues. •
    Data for the month of January are given on pages
2 &3, for February -on pages 4 & 5, for March on
pages 6 & 7, and so on.
     In the first column in the pages 2, 4, 6, 8, -10, etc.,
the date of the'month is given in order. To guide
one properly and to avoid committing any mistake,
while referring along one line, for every 5 -dates, a
line is drawn from the beginning of the left page to
the end of the right one.                              .
     In the second column ^ will be seen. It ' means
the day of the week. For Sundays, a floweryj capital
'S' is used. Capital 'S' for Saturday, 'Th' Tor
Thursday, ' Tu '- for Tuesday, ' M ' for Monday, .VW '
for Wednesday and ' F' for Friday, are the abbrevia-
tions used.
      The third column is allotted to the Sidereal time.
' H' shows ' Hours ', ' M ' represents minutes and
' S ' indicates seconds.
                              4

     la the fourth column, a black thick and dark dot
in the centre of a circle is seen. It is the symbol of
Sun. ' Long' stands for Longitude. Underneath the
Longitude of Sun is given its position in degrees. Next,
you will note the symbol of the sign in which Sun is
on that day. Minutes and seconds follow the symbol
of the sign occupied by Sun.'
      The next column is allotted to the declination of
Sun. This shows how far Sun is in the North or-South
of Celestial Equator. On or around June 22nd, Sun
will be in 23° 27' North 5 on or around September 22nd,
Sun's declination is 0°; i.e., Sun is exactly in the Celes-
tial Equator; i.e. Sun passes the autumnal equinox,
dradually. Sun's declination increases." It will be found
in the South of the Celestial Equator. On or around
22nd December, the declination of Sun will be 23° 27'
South. Sun takes a northern course and around March
21st, the declination of Sun is 0°. -It indicates that Sun
on that day passes the vernal equinox.' So, if one
simply follows this column, day after day, and month
after month, one can understand the declination of Sun.
     There is no latitude for Sun. Why? The Sun's
apparent path is the ecliptic. The latitude, is the
distance measured from the ecliptic perpendicularly to
the planet. As Sun moves along the ecliptic 'and the
measurement is to be taken only from the ecliptic, there
is no latitude at all for Sun. It may be said that Lati-
tude of Sun is ever Zero. But, all other planets have
their own orbits. They are not parallel to the Sun's
path—the ecliptic. Buf they are inclined to it. So, each
of them crosses the ecliptic in two different points.-
     If one goes through the ephemeris, one can observe
that the planets have different latitudes and declinations.
     The sixth column gives the longitude of Moon.
The. seventh shows its latitude, whereas the 8th is the
declination of Moon.
                             5

        Since Moon moves very fast and there is variation
 in its motion every day, the 9th and the 10th columns
 in the same page show the Moon's longitude and
 latitude at midnight 0 hours. Thus, for Moon alone,
 its • position for every 12 hours can be bad from the
■epheineris.
     Xri'the adjacent page, date of the month is given
and only on Sundays, instead of giving the dates, the
letter' S' will be seen which, we will realise to be'useful.
       The longitudes of planets are given in a particular
-order. The planet which moves very, very slowly is
 Neptune. So its longitude is given first, bio doubt
 Uranus also moves slowly, yet faster than Neptune and
•it is between Neptune and Sun. So longitude of Uranfis
 is given next to that of Neptune. The fourth column
 gives the Longitude of Saturn which moves.faster than
Uranus. Further, it is nearer to Sun than Uranus.
Following the same principle, longitudes of Jupiter,
Jdars, Venus and Mercury are given in the ephemeris in
:the order of their distances from Sun.
      Next refer to the upper half of the page. On the
 right side, i.e., pages 3,5,7,9 and so on, the 8th Column
 gives the position of Moon's node, which Hindus call
-as Rahu. As the position of Kethu (Descending node)
 is always exactly 180° away from Rahu, it is not given
separately.
     Thus, the date, the day, the sidereal time at noon
-at Greenwich, the longitudes of all planets can be had
 from the ephemeris.
      Other data furnished'in the ephemeris will be
-explained in the subsequent issues. For the .present, to
-cast a horoscope, the above is necessary and is also
sufficient.
                 SIDEREAL TIME

     Sidereal time is the time of vernal equinox. It is a
measure of one complete rotation of the earth with res-
pect to the vernal equinox (the intersecting point of the
celestial equator and the ecliptic) which has a very small
retrograde motion. .Everyday, the sidereal time at noon
for the same place increases by a little less than four
minutes and in one year the sidereal time increases by
24 hours.
     The sidereal time at noon is given in Raphael's
Astronomical Ephemeris for every noon at Greenwich>
for the whole year. On March 21, it will'be 0 "hour
0 minute when the Sun will be found exactly "in the
vernal equinox. From 21st March, every ni6nth,^,the
sidereal time at noon increases by two hours. .'"-.Stv
around 21st April, the sidereal time at nbdn,.at-''Green-
wich, will be two hours; around 21st May'it wilTbe".4
hours at 12 noon, around 21st June, it will be .6 .;1'Bo,urs
at noon and so on. Thus in 12 months, the'sidereal
time increases by 24 hours at 12 noon.    • -; - -    . -
     If one were to refer the sidereal time at.nqpn on
the day of the birth of a child, then one is to pbitdin the
ephemeris of the year of the birth of the'child ./.All
particulars about the day, the date, the sidereal'time.at
noon at Greenwich, position of all planetsetc!',".are
given in the ephemeris in two adjacent 'pages/.;
       For January refer to pages.    2 &.;3,.. .
       For February         „         4 & 5, -■ -
       For March            ,,      :'6 & 7; . and so on,.
       And for December „          24 & 25,       '
in the Raphael's Astronomical Ephemeris. So, turn
over to the page in which these particulars are given for
                           7

the month of the birth of a child. Underline the date
and day of birth of the native before proceeding to
calculate the sidereal time for the moment of the birth
of a child.
   . Suppose three children are born at Agra, Allaha-
bad and Ahinedabad respectively:, one is born at Agra
at 6-30P.M. I.S.T.; the other at 3:30 A.M. I.S.T. at
Allahabad, and another at 12-5P.M. I.S.T. at Ahmeda-
bad. All these births are on 15th May 1963.
     It means on 15th May, Wednesday evening at
6-30 P.M.. I.S.T. a child is born at Agra; the other is-
born on Tuesday night and before sunrise oh Wednes-
day, three and a half hours after midiuglit, i.e., three
and a half hours after the commencement of the
calendar day 15th May 1963. Another birth was only
5 minutes after Wednesday noon.
    First, what is it that is to be wprked out?
    It is the Local Mean Time of each birth. So, note-
the Longitude of each place of birth: .Reference may
be made to the Geographical Atlas.
      Longitude of Agra is              78° 5' E.
      Longitude of Allahabad is         810 54'E.
      Longitude of Ahmedabad is         72° 38' E.
    1. Time of birth at Agra      = 6-30 P.M. I.S.T..
on 15-5-63.
       Difference between I.S:T:-and Greenwich Mean.-
Time is 5 hours 30 minutes.
       Therefore 6-30 P.M. LS.T. means 6-30—5-30 .
                                     = 1 P.M. G.M.T.
      Longitude of Agra =78°--5'-            -
      For every degree East of Greenwich; add 4
                                               minutes.
       Therefore for 78Q5', add 78° ^7x4 minutes
= 312 minutes 20 sees. = 5 hours 12 minutes 20 sees.
                                 8

     Add this to the G.M.T. obtained.
    6-30 P.M. I.S.T. = 1 P.M. G.M.T.
    Adding 5 hours 12 minutes 20 seconds to 1 P.M.
Cr.M.T., we get L.M.T. = 6-12-20 P.M. on 15-5-63.
   ■ 2. Birth time at Allahabad = 3-30. A.M I.S.T. on
.15-5-63.
        To get Greenwich time, deduct 5 hours 30
sninutes.
        Then Greenwich mean tiine=10P.M. G.M.T.
•on 14-5-63.
        Longitude of Allahabad is 81° 54' E.
        For every degree East add 4 minutes.
       Therefore for 81° 54', add 5 hours'/27-■minutes
36 seconds.                             - "
       So, to 10 P.M. G.M.T. on 14-5^63, adding the 5
hours 27 minutes 36 seconds, we ge"t '3 hrs. 27' 36" A.M.
L.M.T. on 15-5-63 at Allahabad.-- • *:
        Therefore    L.M.T. = i hrs/iV '36"" A.M. oh
•45-5-63; ' '                 " '
     3. Birth time    at        Ahmedabad =12-5 P.M. on
45-5-63. '                 ■"
                           ' ; - A 5.--
         Deducting 5 hours 30 minutes (which is . the
•difference between G.M.T. and I.S.T.), the time
"G.M.T. arrived at is              :
           12 hrs. 5'—5 hrs. 3p.',=6r3^ ^.29^15-5-63:
         Longitude of Ahmedabad = 72 38' E.
         Adding 4 minutes for each degree,'i.e.y .4 hours
30 minutes 32 seconds for 72c'-38' E.,. the time is 6 hrs.
35' -|- 4 hrs. 50' 32"
    - Therefore L.M.T. = 11 hrs. 25' 32" A.M. on
15-5-63.
                             9

     (1) To find the sidereal time for the birth at
 6-30 P.M. I.S.T. on J.5-5-63 at Agra 78° 5' E. = 6-12-20
P.M. L.M.T.
     Take the ephemeris for the year 1963.
     Turn over to page 10.
     Underline the date 15th, against which is written
* W meaning Wednesday.-
     Note the third column. The sidereal time at
noon at Greenwich is given.-      - -
     Sidereal time at hopn at Greenwich oh 15-5-63
 = 3 hours 29 minutes 59 seconds.' ' •y i
                        .          a; r.:: ! „
     Work out the sidereal,timeiat hoph atAgra
78° 5' E.
     For each degree East, deduct 2/3 seconds from the
sidereal time at noon at Greenwich; - •
     Therefore for 78° 5' E. deduct 78 ^ x 2/3 seconds
      ^     sec. = 52 sec. roughly.

    Deducting ;.52 seconds from the sidereal time at
noon at Greenwich on 15-5-1963, we get 3 hrs. 29' 59"
—52" or 3 hrs. 29' 7". This is the sidereal time at Agra
on 15-5-63.
    So,
                                             Hrs. Min. Sec.
      Sidereal time at noon at Green*.
         wich on 15-5-1963~                 =3—29—59
      Sidereal time at noon at Agra on
         15-5-1963                          =3—29—07
      Interval between -previous noon
         and'birth time L.M.T.        '     = 6- 12—20
      Correction for the interval at
         10 seconds per hour                =0— 1—02
         Add all these three. The total =9—42—-29
                           10

      Therefore the sidereal time at the time of birthr
i.e., 6-30 P.M. I.S.T., which is 6 hrs. 12' 20" P.M.
L.M,T. at Agra on 15-5-1963 is 9 hrs. 42' 29".
     (2) Birth at 3-30 A.M. I.S.T. = 3 —27-36 A.M.
L.M.T. on 15-5-63.
        What is the sidereal time ?
        Take the sidereal time at previous noon at
Greenwich.
        The previous noon was the noon on 14-5-63.
        Therefore refer in the ephemeris to. the sidereal
time given for noon at Greenwich on 14-5-63.
        Sidereal time on 14-5-63 at 12 noon at Green-
wich is 3 hours 26 minutes 2 seconds]
        Find sidereal time on 14-5-63 at 12 noon at
Allahabad 81° 54' E. by deducting 2/3.second for every
degree East Longitude.
          x 2/3 sec. =       x   sec. =55 sec.
      Therefore sidereal time at noon on 14-5-63 at
81 54 E.                           jjrs Mul    Sec.
      3 hrs. 26 min, 2 sec.—55 sec. 3   ,25'     7
      Add interval      between
         14-5-63 noon and birth
         time L.M.T.                15   27     36
      Add correction for the
         interval of 15 hours
       * 27 minutes 36 seconds
         at 10 seconds per hour      0    2     35
                    The total is    18   55     18
      Therefore the sidereal time at 3-30 A.M. I.S.T.
on 15-3-63 at Allahabad 81° 54' E. is 18 hrs. 55' 18".
    (3) Birth at 12.5 P.M. I.S.T. - 11 hrs. 25' 32" A.M.
L.M.T. on 15-5-63 at 72° 38'E (Ahmedabad). Since.
                           11

theL.M.T. is 11 hrs. 25' 32" A.M. on 15-5-63, take the
sideral time at previous noon on 14-5-63 which is
 3 hours 26 minutes 2 seconds.
This time is given for Greenwich :
So the sidereal time at Ahmedabad which is 72° 38' E-
                            38 2
  is 3 hrs. 26' 2" minus 72 — x — sec. or 48 sec.
                            6o 3
                                     Hrs. Min.        Sec
                                      3     25        14
Add the interval between previous
  noon and birth time in L.M.T.    . 23     25        32
Add also correction for the interval
  of 23 hrs. 25 min. 32 sec. at .10
  seconds per hour              *     0      3        54
                       Total      = "26     54        40"
     As the total is above 24 hours, the excess is
26 hrs. 54' 40" minus 24 hrs. or 2 hrs. 54' 40".
Therefore, the sidereal time for birth at 12-5 P.M.
LST. on 15-5-63 at Ahmedabad 72° 38' E. is 2 hours
54 minutes 40 seconds. When one wants to work out,
one need not write all these. It is enough if the
following is worked out:
    Birth at 12-5 P.M. I.S.T. = 12-25-32 A.M. L.M.T.
on 15-5-63 at 72° 38' E.
                                       Hrs. Min. Sec.
Sidereal time at noon on 14-5-63         3   26    2
Deduction for 72° 38' at | sec.
  for one degree                         0    0   48
                                         3   25   14
Add interval between previous
  noon and birth time in L.M.T.        23    25   32
Add correction for interval              0    3   54
                            Total         26     54    40
                            12

    Therefore sidereal time on 15-5-63 at 12-5 P.M.
                    at 72 38' E. is 26 hrs. 54' 40" sec.
Deduct 24 hours.
    Sidereal time at    12-5 P.M. I.S.T. on 15-5-63
                              = 2 hrs. 54 min. 40 sec.

    Let us take the examples of two births in Western
Longitude. One birth is supposed to be at 9 P.M. at
Boston 71° 2' West and the other at 7 A.M. at San
Francisco 122° 25' West on 15-5-63. The Standard
time in use at Boston is 5 hours less than Greenwich
mean time.
     The Standard time at San Frdncisco" is 8 hours
less than Greenwich mean time.
    If it is 12 noon Standard time at Boston, it will be
5 P.M. at Greenwich.
     If it is 12 noon Standard time at San Francisco, it
will be 8 P.M. at Greenwich.
    At Boston 71° 2' West, birth was at 9 P.M.
    DiBerence is 5 hours.
    Hence the time at Greenwich will be 2 A.M. ort
16-5-63. Boston is 71° 2' West.

   ' For every one degree deduct 4 minutes for West
longitude. Hence deduct 71 & x 4 min. or 4 hours
44 minutes 8 seconds from Greenwich time.

     Hence 2 A.M. on 16-5-63 is 14 hrs. minus 4 hrs.
44' 8" = 9 hrs. 15' 52" P.M. L.M.T. on 15-5-63.
                           13

                                              Hrs. Mia. Sec.,
       Sidereal time at previous
       noon, i.e., on 15-5-63                  3   29    59
       To get sidereal time at Boston
        ' at noon, add , x 7)«V sec.         +0     0    47
       Add interval between previous
          noon and birth time L.M.T.           9   15    52
       Correction for interval at 10
          sees, per hour                     +0      1   33
Therefore sidereal time at 9 P.M. on          t
  15-5-63 at 71° 2' W. is                     12   48    11.
                   = 12 hours 48 min. 11 sec.
    (4)   Birth at San Fransisco 7 A.M. Standard time:
    Difference between Greenwich time and Standard
time is 8 hours. Therefore 7 A.M. oh 15-5-63 at San
Francisco = 3 P.M. on 15-5-63 at Greenwich.
    Longitude of San Francisco is 122° 25' West.
Hence deduct 122|^ x 4 min.                  Hrs. Min. Sec...
   or 489 min. 40 sees, or from
   3 P.M. = 6 hrs. 50' 20" A.M.
   L.M.T. at San Francisco                    S     9    40
Sidereal time at 12 noon at
   Greenwich on 14-5-63                  =    3    26     2
Sidereal time at 12 noon at
   San Francisco (add 122 £4 x |)        =    0     1    22
Add the interval between "previous
   noon and birth time L.M.T.                 18   50    20
Add correction for interval at 10
 ' sees, per hour                             0     3     8
Therefore sidereal tims at^7 P:Mr
   Standard time at San Franscisco
   on 15-5-63                        =       22 ~2CP 52
              SIGNS AND HOUSES

       Thousands of stars are visible when night gathers
 -and they are scattered at random over the sky. Only
  a few appear in certain patterns. If one observes the
 pathway of the moon, one will notice that it does not
 embrace all the stars in the heavens, but takes
  a course which is in the neighbourhood of the celestial
  equator. Observations made to fix the apparent path-
 way of the Sun both in the early morning hours and
 immediately after sunset confirm that its route is also
 very close to the celestial equator and neither Sun nor
 Moon moves far away from it. Never do they pass •
 near the SouthJ Pole or the North Pole. The Sun's
 path crosses the celestial equator in two points and the
 Sun will be away from it 23° 27' at the most. . The
 Moon's orbit is a littleJuclinedsto the Sun's path, viz. the
 ecliptic. The other planets also have their individual
 orbits and all of them are found within 8 degrees on
 either side of the Ecliptic. This belt of the heavens,
 which is a circle of space surrounding the Earth, is
-called the Zodiac.
     The Sun appears to rise 365 times a year. But 360
is the L.C.M. (Least Common Multiple) of Numbers 1
to 10 except 7. Hence it appears that the circular
route is said to cover 360 degrees, and the mathemati-
cians have also taken 360° for a circle.
     The Sun and the New Moon conjoin twelve times
before the Sun completes one revolution. So also in
the same one yeas period there are 12 Full Moons.
    Probably this may be the reason to divide the
Zodiac into 12 equal parts. Hence each part is defined
to contain 30 degrees of space called the signs of the
Zodiac. Thus the 12 signs, each measuring exactly 30
degrees, constitute the circle of the Zodiac which is 360°.
                               15

        These twelve signs commence from the vernal equi-
    nox and they are called
        Aries—Mesha;            Libra—Thula;
        Taurus—Rishaba;         Scorpio—Vrischika;
        Gemini—Mithuna;          Saggitarius—Dhanus
        Cancer—Kataka;          Capricorn—Makara ;
        Leo—Simha;               Aquarius—Kumbha;
        Virgo—Kanni;             Pisces—Meena.
          The earth revolves on its axis once in 24 hours.
    During this period the twelve signs pass over any
     given spot on the earth, one succeeding the other
     in the same order. Each sign takes nearly two hours
     to transit the eastern part of the horizon where the
     Sun appears to rise in the morning. The time taken by
    each sign varies. Though a few transit within a period
    of two hours, some signs take more than two hours
     and the total time taken is only 24 hours. This also
    varies widely, depending upon the latitude of the place
    -of birth.
         For example, Aries takes nearly 112 minutes and
    •Gemini 129 minutes for people in the Equator, whereas
    Aries takes 80 minutes and Gemini 118 minutes for
     peopfe in the latitude 34° North.
'    ' As the Zodiac is ever moving and birth can
 '"happen at any moment, the part of the Zodiac that
   rises in the East will be regularly changingat the rate of
   roughly 1 degree for every four minutes. Therefore, to
   find out which part of the Zodiac or which part of a
   particular sign, is rising in the East at the time of birth
   one has to calculate. It is only to ascertain this time
   of birth and to have some more "data, sidereal time at
   the time of birth of the child is worked out. Now
   it is necessary to know how to fix the ascendant, i.e.,
  the part of the sign that is rising in the East.
          A—2
                          10

      With a view to read the results of the horoscope-
 our sages have also advocated that the circle commen-
cing from the ascendant is to be divided into 12 parts.
These divisions are called Houses. The rising position
in the Zodiac, called the Ascendant, the meridian of
the place and the setting position of the Zodiac, other-
wise called Descendant, are taken for calculation. The
quadrants formed between the meridian and the homon
are trisected. These form the visible six houses above
the earth. The other six houses are diametrically
opposite to each of these six houses. Thus there are
six houses below the earth.
     There are various methods of House division.
The Hindus follow the method recommended by
Sripatipaddathi. It is popular. In other countries,
eignt methods are followed and the principles involved
in each will be very briefly mentioned here.
     (a) Ptolemy's modus equalis or equal method.
The division of the houses commences from the degree
that rises in the East. Thirty degrees are added succes-
sively and the meridian obtained will not coincide with
the zenith. It is a rough method and is given up.
     (b) Porphyry suggested a method where the meri-
dian and the ascendant are decided and the quadrants
are equally divided into three equal parts. The
quadrant formed by the ascendant and Nadir (the -
cusp of the * fourth house) is divided into three equal-
parts. Thus, six houses are obtained and for the other
six houses, the diametrically opposite points are taken.
This is also not used nowadays.
     (c) Morinus introduced a method by trisecting the
quadrant of the equator by circles passing through the
poles of the ecliptic which has not received . support
from the present-day authors.
     (d) An Australian astrologer named Zariel
advocated equal division method by di viding-the equatoF
                           17

into 12 equal segments. The division commences from
the meridian of the place. This is also not popular.
     (e) The method of Alcabitius: He determines
the Ascendant in the usual manner. He determines the
sidereal time when this degree of the ascendant will be
in the meridian. The difference between this and the
sidereal time at birth is divided by three and that
position which will culminate for the sidereal time thus
arrived at, is taken as the cusp of houses 11 and 12.
Similarly he completes the circle.
     (0 'Campanus follows a method by which he finds
the cusps of houses which are the degrees of the
Ecliptic cut by the Prime Vertical.
     (g) The method in common use is that followed
by Placidus, generally known as " Semi Arc System".
     (b) Regiomontanus advocates modus rationalis
which is a rational one.
     In the succeeding issues, these will be taken up
one by one and described. But now it is enough to
understand that there are many methods to work out
the various houses. But to the astrologer, it is a
tedious job.
     To save the trouble as well as the time, and to
avoid mistakes, it is suggested that the book " Tables
of Houses" may be obtained. If it is not available in
your place, please write to " Lakshmi Book Stores ",
Janpath, New Delhi, The books are available in this
book-stall.
     This book published by Raphael is the best. AH
other tables of houses published by different authors
will vary widely. Astronomers will say, in one voice,
"FOLLOW RAPHAEL'S TABLE OF HOUSES
ALONE."
    He takes every degree of the meridian to places in
                            18

the Northen Hemisphere. That is, he has calculated
the position of the various houses to a locality by taking
regularly one degree after another from Aries 0 degree
to Pisces 30° when it passes the meridian. For lati-
tudes between 2° & 60° N., this table is useful. To each
latitude of the place, the sidereal time is furnished in
the first column. Then the sign and the number of
degrees are given for houses 10,11,12, Ascendant, 2 and
3. These are the exact points where the houses begin.
It is called the " CUSPS " of houses. The space in
between the adjacent cusps is the extension of the
house. By adding 180 degrees to the cusps 10,11,12,
1,2 & 3 one can easily arrive at the position of the
cusps of the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and the 9th houses
respectively. Thus, all the houses can be recorded with
ease and without any error.
      The positions of these houses are given according
to Sayana System.
      Signs are twelve in number. They always com-
mence at Aries 0° which is the moving vernal equinox
and each sign is ever exactly 30°, whether a person is
in equator or at any latitude in the northern or southern
hemisphere.
      But houses begin only from the point of Zodiac
that just rises in the East at the required time. Each
house is different in longitude. Some houses will be
greater than 30° and some less than 30°, but the longi-
tudes of all the houses put together will be exactly
3606.
      Example : Suppose one's sidereal time at birth is
 18 hours at Madras (or 130N.), one is to refer in the
table of houses to the particular page in which the posi-
tion is given for 130N.
      The ascendant will be Aries 0° (Mesha).
      The cusp of 2nd house is Taurus 4° (Rishaiba).
                          19

    The cusp of.3rd house is Gemini 4° (Mithuna).
    The cusp of 4th house is Cancer 0°.
    The cusp of 5 th house is Cancer 26°. .
    The cusp of 6th house is Leo 26°.
    The cusp of 7th house is Libra 0° and so on.
     From this one can note how each house varies in
its Longitude.
                                                 i
     A reference to other tables of houses published by
other authors, will show that they do not agree.
     As Raphael's Table of houses is adopted by astro-
nomers due to its correctness, the readers are advised
to use this alone, so that they can follow easily the
casting of the horoscopes which will appear later.
DATE FROM WHICH STANDARD TIME
       IN USE IS ADOPTED
                             Date Month   Year
  United States and Canada
     from 12 noon on          18   11     1883
  Japan                       12    7     1886
  Austria                      7    9     1889
  Hungary                      7    9     1889
  Germany                      1    9     1890
  Prussia                      1    4     1893
  Rumania                      1   10     1891
  Servia                       1   10     1891
  Bulgaria                     1   10     1891
  Italy                        1   11     1893
  Denmark                      1    1     1894
  Switzerland                  1    6     1894
  Norway                       1    1     1895
  Queensland                   1    1     1895
  Australia                    1    1     1895
  New South Wales              1    2     1895
  Victoria                     1    2     1895
  South Australia              1    2     1895
  Manila Island               11    5     1899
  Phillippine Island          11    5     1899
  Alaska                      20    8     1900
  Spain                        1    1     1901
  Balearic Islands             1    1     1901
  Atlantic Time               15    6     1902
  New Brunswik                15    6     1902
  Nova Scotia                 15    6     1902
                            21
                                        Date Month Year
          Cape Breton                    15   6    1902
          Prince Edwards' Island         15   6    1902
          Orange River Colony             1   3    1903
          South Africa                    1   3    1903
          Transvaal                       1   3    1903
          Rhodesia                        1   3    1903
          Portugese East Africa           1   3    1903
          Cape Colony                     1   3    1903
          INDIA                           1 ■ 1    1906
          Peru                           28   7    1908
          Republic of Chile               I   1    1910
          Republic of France             10   3    1911
       The following table gives the difference between
 the Greenwich mean time and the Standard time used
 in various parts of the world. If the 4 + ' is used, one
 is to add this difference to Greenwich mean time. For
 example, India " + 5 hours 30 minutes", means that
 Indian Standard Time is always 5 hours 30 minutes in
 advance of Greenwich Mean Time. If in Greenwich it
 is 9 A.M., adding 5 hours 30 minutes," we get 2-30
 P.M. in the'afternoon, according to Indian Standard
 Time. If it is 7 P.M. in Indian Standard Time,
■deduct 5 hours 30 minutes. Then 1-30 P.M. afternoon
 is Greenwich mean time.
                                    Hours Minutes Seconds
           Algeria                    0      9       21
           Argentina                  4     16       48
           Australia Western          8      0        0
           Australia Central —        9     30        0
           Australia Eastern         10      0        0
           Austria Hungary            1       0       0
           Belgium                    0       0       0
                   22
                        Hours Minutes Seconds-
Borneo                    8      0       0
Brazil                    2     52      41
British Columbia          8      0       0
Canada Eastern            5      0       0
Canada Central            6      0       0
Chile                     4    42       46
China'—Shanghai           8      5      43
China—Saigon              7      6      49
Columbia                  4     56      54
Cuba                      5     29      26
Denmark                   1      0       0
Egypt                     2      0       0
England                   0      0       0
Fiji Islands            11      53      44
France                    0      9      21
Germany                   1      0       0
Gibraltar                 0      0       0
Greece                    1     34      53-
Holland                   0      0       0
Hong Kong                 8      0       0
INDIA                     5     30       a
Ireland                   0     25      21
Italy                     1      0       0-
Japan                     9      0       0
Java                      7      7      14
Korea                     9    . 0       0'
Madagascar                3     10       7
Malta                     1      0       0
Mexico                   .6     36      27
New Zealand             11      30       0>
Norway                    1      0       0)
                        23

                                 Hours Minutes Seconds;
       Nova Scotia .              4        0      0
       Panama            y        5      19      39
       Peru                       5        9      3
       Portugal                   0      36       5
       Russia Pulkowa             2        1     19
       Russia Irkutsk             6      57       5
       Russia Vladivostok         8 ,    47      31
       Servia                      1       0      0
       Singapore                  6      55      25
       South Africa                2       0      0
       Spain                      0       .0      0
       Sweden                      1       0      0
       Switzerland                 1       0      0
       Tunis                      0        9     21
       Turkey                     2        0      0
       United States:
       From Manic to South
         Carolina                  5       0       0
       Kakota to Texas      "J     c.D     0       0
       Michigan to Florida >
       Montana to Arizona         7        0       0
       Pacific Coast States
         and Nevada                8       0       0
       Alaska Sitka                9       0       0
       Hawaiian Islands           10      30       0
       Phillippine Islands         8       0       0
       Porto Rico                  4       0       0
       Panama Canal Zone           5.      0       0
   One has to refer to this table arid" calculate;
G.M.T. to erect a horoscope.
                   WHO IS WHO ?
           PLANETS AND THEIR GOVERN
        Sun: Sun is the parent of the entire solar system^
  It is also called the ' Father of the Stars      It is the
 -nearest star to the earth and is about 93 million miles
.away from our Mother Earth. It is the largest among
  the planets, belonging to the solar system. . It is nearly
  750 times larger than all the planets put together. Its
 ■diameter is about 110 times that of the earth and is
  nearly 27,19,000 miles in circumference.
     Scientists say that it is not a solid mass, but they
are of the opinion that it is composed of gaseous
matter in a series of layers which send out cool and
positive magnetic rays which meet one of the negative
quality on earth, and that thereby both heat and light
are developed. These waves affect likewise all other
planets belonging to the solar system. The variation
in the intensity depends on many factors.
     The sun-spots are active for a period of 11 years
-and are passive for the succeeding 11 years. (Details
 about the sun-spots will be discussed in later issues.)
        Mythology : Being the centre of all life, force and
  energy and the giver of Prana, Sun is worshipped as
  Sun God. It is held in high esteem. At least thrice
■daily, Sun is prayed for by the Hindus. Every Sunday
  ' SURYA-NAMASKARAM ' is done by many persons
  to regain the lost vitality and eye-sight. Other nations
 ..also pay reverence to Sun. It is said to represent the
'Creator, the Brahma, with his four faces to have a
  survey of all the four directions causing four seasons
  and the four elements, namely Fire, Earth, Air .and
  Water. Sundays (otherwise called Sabbath, meaning
  wise teacher) are given holidays probably to worship
  Him. Sunday is also put at the head of all the seven
 ■days of the week.
                            25

     Westerners call the Sun, Apollo. They consider
that Sun is the son of Jupiter and Latona. Apollo is
the brother of Diana. He is adored by the Greeks.
The swan and the raven are said to be Apollo's birds.
        Hindus have conceived the Sun as ever moving in
  a chariot drawn by seven horses. This is probably
  because in the Sun are contained all the seven colours
  of the solar spectrum (VIBGYOR). They say that Sun
  goes round the mount Meru daily. Whenever Sun
  enters into certain significant signs, the Hindus perform
  some religious function on those days to satisfy the
  departed soul and also offer prayers to Sun God. One
  such occasion is at the time when Sun crosses the fixed
  Nirayana Vernal Equinox and enters Aries so that the
  people in the North Pole could see him after a
  continous night extending to six months. This is called
  Vishu or Tamil New Year's Day. The next occasion is
  on or around July 17 when Sun reaches the nothern-
  most declination (twenty three degrees twenty seven
  minutes from the celestial equator) and begins its
  southern course. It is called Dakshinayana. The next
  occasion when they perform the religious rites falls
  when Sun during its southern course reaches the
' Autumnal Equinox which is the beginning of Libra or
  Thulam. Three months later, when Sun reaches the
  southernmost declination in the south and just when
  he commences the Northern course, all Hindus irres-
  Fective of caste or creed uniformly celebrate this day.
   t is called Sankaranthi. Thus the Sun has come to
  occupy an important place in the Hindu Pantheon.
  The greatest Astrologer Varahamihira worshipped only
  Sun God and shed an imperishable lustre among the
  nine gems in the court of King Vikramadithya.
     The Sun takes exactly one year to go round the
ecliptic. It has only the direct motion. Never does it
retrograde. Also there is no latitude to Sun.
                           26

     Sun stands to us as a symbol of spirit. Hindus
consider that Sun is the soul of Kalapurusha. (The-
Moon is his mind ; Budha or Mercury his speech;
Kuja or Mars his strength; Jupiter or Guru his know^
ledge and happiness, Venus or Sukra his desire or
lust; Saturn is his misery, etc. It is said that the
several constituents of Kalapurusha are either strong or
weak according to the strength of the planets represent-
ing them. Only Saturn is exempted. Whenever Saturn
is weak, misery will be much greater and will predomi-
nate. But if Saturn is strong there will be less of
misery. All these effects are felt only in their res-
pective periods.)
      For all living beings. Sun represents the positive
and primal fount whereas Moon represents the negative
influence. Sun is constructive and creative while Moon
i& preserving and formative. Sun is the father and
Moon is the mother.- Therefore Sun is the symbol of
spirit and Moon is that of matter, both acting as life
aud form. That is why the zodiac which is divided into
 12 signs are in itheir nature alternately positive and
negative or masculine and feminine.
     The Sun and Moon are considered to be the
sovereigns. Whereas Guru or Jupiter and Sukra or
Venus are the counsellors or ministers, Budha or Mercury
is their heir or the young prince, Kuja or Mars is the
commander-in-chief and Saturn or Sani is the slave or
the servant. Sun is the king and Moon is the queen.
Venus is considered to be the wife of Jupiter and the
adviser.
    Other names of Sun are: Adhithya, Arka, Aruna,
Bhanu, Dhinakara or Dhinakrit, Heli, Pusha, Ravi,
Surya and Thapana.
     Sun's govern : Sun and Moon are the two lumi-
naries as they both emit light and make everything
                           27

bright. The Sun possesses a form with dark red eyes.
Realising that it is the Sun which pours forth his spirit
and it is the one planet which gives life to one and
all, Chaldeans worshipped the Sun with great love and
devotion.
     The Sun offers us the power of resistance and
vitality. It governs the inspiration and expiration, i.e.,
breath of life. Also, it rules over our consciousness
and denotes the individuality whereas the form and
personality are attributed to the moon. Sun gives the
force and self-will and makes one determined and
decisive.
     Sun is a dry, masculine, positive and hot planet.
He is ' Agni Devatha' and is fiery' by nature. He rules
the direction East and (of the six Rithus) * Grishma '
which includes the months June and July. The colour
of the Sun is orange or Kanakambaram. He rules the
metal Gold and also Copper.
     Sun represents the Father of the native. In the
woman's chart it indicates her husband. In service it
shows the master, or the administrative head or the
Government. In games, it stands for the captain or
the leader.
     Physical Features: People with Sun as ruling
planet born either on a Sunday or in Leo—Simha
Lagna or with Sun in the Ascendant will have honey
coloured eyes. The face will be large and round. The
hair and the colour of the body will have a light shade.
     Physical body: Sun rules the heart." So also the
sign which Sun governs, Leo—Simha denotes the heart
of the Kalapurusha. It also represents the right eye in
man and left eye in woman. The mouth, spleen, throat
and brain are also indicated by Sun.
                             28

     Diseases: Sun when afflicted will cause defects in
the heart or in the eye-sight during the conjoined period
of the Sun and the afflicting planet. Saturn afflicting the
Sun causes low blood pressure whereas Jupiter afflicting
the Sun produces high blood pressure. Mars afflicting
Sun causes haemorrhage, (cardiac thrombosis, etc. The
constitution will be overheated and bilious. It also
denotes cerebral meningitis, eruptions of the face, loss
of speech as a result of cerebral affection, i.e., aphasia,
sharp fevers, typhoid, polypus, epilepsy, bile comp-
laints, sun-stroke, scorches and disease in the head.
     Characteristics : When Sun is not afflicted but is
strong and beneficial it offers sterling qualities. It offers
real love towards everything and everybody. It fosters
universal love. Devotion to God will be sincere and.
steady. There will be inspiration and intuition-
Activity and authority are the beneficial results of Sun.
Steadiness, soundness and solidarity in the avocation
are due to Sun. It indicates one's self-aquisition. One
will not mind making strenuous efforts, roaming over
mountains, undertaking travels and taking all pains to
gain his objective. Maximum labour and minimum,
wages are also attributed to Sun. Strong Sun in a
favourable sign offers strong will. The native will have,
a cheerful outlook towards life and enjoy good fortune.
He should not however be too frank and outspoken.
He has to cultivate caution and secretiveness. Sun
gives power to rise far above the status in which he is
born. It gives a magnetic quality and ambition. -Sun's-
subjects are tireless workers.
     They should however avoid bossing over others.
They should not be over-ambitious lest they should feel,
discontented or unhappy. Those who have a strong.
Sun and seek favour from anybody, should go directly
without sending an agent since the magnetic radiation,
of the Sun is carried with them and the person sought.
                            29

out cannot refuse to grant the request. By exercising
self-control and limiting his ambition, he will enjoy the
good-will and the esteem of the people in powerful
positions and also from the public. Similarly, high,
government officials can enjoy life and earn the good-
will of the public-
      Beneficial sun gives ambition, boldness, brilliance,,
capacity to command, dignity, energy, elevation in rank,
faith, fame, grace, generosity, health, hope, happiness,
individuality, influence, joy, kind heart, kindly appear-
ance, loyalty, magnanimity, nobility, optimism, power,,
sterling quality, respect to elders, reputation, royalty,
regality, scruples, success in worldly affairs, truth, good
temperament, unadulterated love, vigour, vitality,,
virtue and warmth.
     Afflicted Sun makes one arrogant, bluff, domineer-
ing, egoistical, faithless, vain-glorious, haughty, insult-
ing, jealous, lavish, loquacious, over-ambitious, pomp-
ous and proud, self-opinionated, irritable angry and
spiteful.
     Profession: Sun generally indicates a permanent,
position in life. All government services, and those
in such departments where there is security of service
are denoted by Sun. Sun also indicates an independent
business financed by the father or the business taken,
over from him. Sun as an indicator of profession gives
spccess to one who deals in red or orange articles,.
copper, gold, wheat, medicine and chemicals.
                                       ■ ■,
     The nature of the profession will however largely
depend on the combination of the Sun with other
Planets. If, for example, Sun js_connected with Moon,
and Mercury, thenative will deal in red clothes or orange
clothes as Moon and Mercury jointly indicate textiles ;
alternatively one may be employed with this combi-
nation in a government textile department since Sun.
                            30

  represents government whereas Moon and Mercury
 denote textiles. If Sun has any connection with Moon
  and Venus, the native may deal in red or orange paints
  or the native may serve in a transport or shipping
 department. If Mars and Mercury are connected with
  Sun in any manner, the native may be a military engi-
  neer or he may deal in brick kilns or serve in
 Government Press as Mars and Mercury indicate press
 or mechanical or military engineering, etc. Sun, Mars
 and Venus promise service as Venus stands for vehicular
 traffic and transport, and Mars police in traffic
 department. Those who deal in rose flowers will be
 influenced by these three planets because Venus is for
 flowers. Mars shows his possession of landed property
 and red colour and Sun indicates thorny plants. Sun
"having a relation with Saturn suggests that one will deal
 in woollen goods as Saturn also denotes hair.-
      For people who enter into the medical services as
 indicated by Sun, the following combinations of planets
 will indicate the exact nature of their specialisation.
    Sun with Jupiter produces good physicians and
Mercury gives intuition and helps to diagnose correctly.
     Sun receiving beneficial aspects from Mars brings
out able surgeons, as Mars indicates use of sharp
instruments.
    Sun, Venus and Jupiter help specialisation ;iij
Maternity, since Sun denotes medicine, Venus womta1
and Jupiter the chief governor for children.
     If Venus receives aspects from the active and bold
Mars and the secretive Saturn and conjoined with Sun,
the person will be an expert-in„venereal diseases.
      If Sun, Venus and Saturn are mutually connected,
 the person will specialise in skin diseases as Saturn
.spoils the beauty given by Venus.
                            31

      Sun and Venus devoid of other planets' influence
 occupying the sixth or the eighth house show that he
 will be an optician.
     Sun and Saturn in the Ascendant or in the 8th
 house indicate that one will earn as a dentist.
     In one's chart the Ascendant shows the native and
the 7th house indicates the patieut whom he treats. If
the 2nd and the 12th houses are spoiled, one has eye
defect or disease. So the 2nd and the 12th houses
from the 7th is the 8th and the 6th houses counted
from the Ascendant. Therefore the planets Sun and
Venus in 6 and 8 in the medical officer's chart shows
that he will attend on people suffering from eye
diseases.
     One suffers from tooth-ache only when the 2nd and
the 7th houses are afflicted. Therefore the 2nd and the
7th houses counted from the 7th house representing
the patient are the 8 th and the Ascendant of the doctor.
Hence dentists will have Sun and Saturn having
connection with these two houses. Further, Saturn
rules the osseous system, bones, enamel, etc.
     Sun and Mercury in the 9th. or the 5th house
indicate that the native will be an expert in Ear, Nose
and. Throat diseases as the houses three and eleven
denote ear and throat.
^     If Rahu, Sukra, Sun, Uranus and the lord of the
-ffth house are in any manner connected with each
other, the medical man will specialise in ' X 'ray.
     If Uranus has connection only with the Sun, the
native will serve in the medical, research department.
     Generally Sun and Jupiter having connection with
Virgo or Kanni, Scorpio or Vrischika shows service in
the Public Health department, whereas Mars shows
that in the medical department.
                          32

     Similarly if one takes to the other departments of
the government, for example. Law, then Jupiter with
Sun and Mercury indicates Civil Law, whereas Mars
indicates Criminal Law.
     To find out one's profession exactly, a deep study
is necessary.
     Political: Sun denotes administrators, kings,
dictators, royal leaders, heads of departments, and
people in authority and power.
     Products: The products represented by Sun
include red variety in rice, myrobalams, groundnut,
cocoanut, asaffoetida, cardamoms, almonds, chillies,
omum (Ajwan), pepper, milagu, pine, lavendar, nut-
meg, aromatic herbs, saffron, pearls, corals, etc.
     Market: Government Loans, Gold bonds. Gilt-
edged securities. Gold, its price and control, Reserve
Bank, Stock Exchange, Foreign Exchange             and
Currency, Trade Associations recognised by Govern-
ment, Chambers of Commerce, etc.
     Plants and Herbs: Thorny trees, grass, timber.
Saffron, Laurel, Orange trees. Anise, Cedar, Almond,
Vervain, Chamomile, Lavendar, Rue,         Rose-mary,
Mary-gold and medicinal herbs.
     Places: Forests, Mountains, Shiva temples.
Fortress, Government buildings. Public offices—District
Boards, Panchayat Unions, etc., Sourashtfa country
in India.
     Animals and Birds : Lion, Horse, Boar, Serpent,'
Cattle and other , quadrupeds in the forest. All
singing birds, nightingale, swan.
    Day : Sun is the lord of Sunday. Whenever one
runs a period ruled by Sun, he can expect the results
on a Sunday ruled by Sun or at the time when Leo
or Simha Lagna owned by Sun rises in the east or on
                         33

the days when Moon transits in the stars or nakshat-
ras, Karthigai, Utbrapalguni and Uthrashada, governed
by Sun.
     Precious Stones: Diamond and ruby. If Sun is
weak or afflicted, one can use metal gold and the
stones diamond and ruby set in it.        Those who
suffer from heart trouble, eye diseases or those who
want security in service or power in government, or
favour from the high government officials, they
can use the above gems to enjoy health and
success. They will be able to realise their ambition.
     So far, the general . results of Sun have been
discussed. Let us see how its results vary according
to the houses which it occupies at the time of the
birth of a person.
                             57

 get favourable replies. They will not incur any
expenditure on account of the real estates, houses or
landed properties. Speculative gains will only be a
minimum if they are cautious. Lotteries, races, etc.,
may give some financial gains and mental peace.
Court affairs, litigation, etc., will end favourably to
them. The servants will not give them any trouble.
They might incur some expenses by declaring bonus to
menials. They need not be afraid of any secret
inimical activities from any source.
      Attempts f or higher or specialised studies would
 be fruitful in the earlier part of month. Success is
 assured in any of the competitive examinations, for
 which they are candidates. Help and assistance would
 be forthcoming from friends and officers. Business
activity will be hectic and they will have a major
 portion of the unsold goods moved in the market.
Brothers will keep good health from the 7th and they
■will have successes and gains in their enterprises.
Mother will keep only indifferent health in the first
fortnight of the month. Her health will improve and
return to normalcy in the latter half of the month.
      Their children will have steady financial gains
 during the first two weeks while in the last two weeks
 quite opposite results would be enjoyed by them. Wife
■will have peace of mind. She may undertake a long
journey to some place of pilgrimage. The partner in
 business will have an improvement in his health,
 wealth and position. The father of the native, born
under the sign Pisces, will have immense popularity and
 a contented life in the earlier part of the month.
 Some extra work in the office is unavoidable for him
 after the 16th instant. The extra labour will be
favourably considered and viewed by those occupying
superior positions. As not much of speculative gains
are indicated, it is better to be cautious while entering it.
