  STELLAR ASTROLOGICAL

  READER NO.                              1

  CASTING THE HOROSCOPE


                    Author:
Sothida Mannan, Jyotish Marthand
(Late) Prof. K.S. KRISHNAMURTI




  some pages are badiy printed so is the PDF,..sorry
                           PREFACE

      "When there are many books on Astrology available In this
world, where is the necessity for this book?" roav be asked by
any. This question is taken up and the answer is the introduction
for this book.
     In India, there are manv Sidhanthas and none of them agree
with each other. Threefore the position of the ptanets calculated
and obtained differ one from the other. Astrologers have to
depend upon only these altnaoacs in India and each prepares the
horoscope and ultimately on two horoscopes agree, eventhough
the time of birth given to the astrologer by the native remains the
same. Then the native is confused and he or she does not know
which of them is correct. Each person has a dozen different
horoscopes for the same time of birth given hv htm to the astro-
logers all over India, A few of the astrologers do not know how
to erect a correct chart when the birth remains the same and the
erection of the horoscope is nothfne but a mathematical calcula-
tion The native must be given one and the same horoscope even
though it is worked oat by manv. A few do not know the need
of the place of birth, that is to take the latitude and longitude of
the place of birth.
     Srlpathf Padhdhafi gives a good knowledge about various
calculations. When we go through the various records, there is
nothing to prove that Sripathi had studied the Western system
slso and then came to a decision to render his treatise. It is to
be presumed that be knows only the traditional Indian System
and accordingly he has pubiished his book.
      During their days, there was no occular instrument; but la
these days we have not only the occular instrument but also
various other ones to formulate and bring out the Ephemeris
which is very correct. Therefore when correct ones are available,
it is not wise to use the almanacs for casting a horoscope. What
we want is a correct chart,
     In India, the Indian authors are following the original system.
Their works suggest (hat fhty do not want to Improve it, but to
simply and blindly follow sals advised in the traditional system.
There was no method to offer prediction, if the point rising in
the east moves degree by degree. Such minute divisions can be
                              *111

m*4* but thiy have not dealt *Hrti elaborately giving the principle
which can I'c ufed by astroloeera. No doubt there are A bust,
but the aoihor has not handed down bts theory, the rules and
dicta to that the readers can offer prediction after going through
the booV, Minute Arcs a division arc useful to do postmortem
and satisfy one self and not for scientific prediction by one and
all. People will he happy to know whether there Is one astrologer
in the world wbo can predict ustrg amaa Nadis in his or her life
tire atleast on any one horoscope.
     When Krisbnatimri) Padbdhatl has been discovered, it Is
found, absolutely necessary to cast a horoscope correct to degree
sod minute. If any one were to erect a baroscope, using the
available pambang be wilt have different position and such
horoscopes wjU mislead and predictions also must fail. But If
ore following mv method, one must lake only my Ayanscjsa.
Kmhnamuril Padhdhati offers both ffie nature of event and the
time of eviot correctly. Readers should take only Krisbnamurtl
?atJhdhati Ayan^msa if thev want to predict according to
Kmbnamurti Padhdhati. It need not be said that other
Ayantmsas especially, widely varying ones, will be useless if you
want to follow K P.
     1 have decided to bring out the method to cast a horoscope
and 1 have titled it as the 'First Reader'. This Is brought out
according to the suggestion offered by the icholan In Banjar—»
Kulu Valley—Himachal Pradesh a few years ago when 1 visited
that place.
      No doubt it will not be pleasant to change over from the
incorrect to • correct one, only by such a few people wborcepecl
the tncienis without thiokiog for a miaufe ; but they follow with
bliud faith shine. To rt ad any book and to follow la entirely
left to any indiMdual. But to mink, correct and apply or use the
correct one is h ft to the wiser students and scholars, lam auyo
mv book will iervc the fcbove purpose and 1 am happy that in h
cctade in Iuom there wilt be aiiest lakhs of astrologers
can erect the horoscopes of the consultants most accurately.
Even if hundtecs cast the same chart, all Will be the same:
    My tluiiks arc due (o many of my students who helped ntc
even years ago to bring out this book.
                      INTRODUCTION

     The purpose of living is to dhcover the purpose of living.
Our ancestors taught us that Astrology was one of the keys to
the solution of this enigma. The importance of Astrology wa»
well stressed by Vaid>anatba Diksblta when he said In his treatise
'Jatakaparijata' that there is nothing in the world like a horos-
cope to help a man In the acquisition of wealth, to save htm like
a boat In a sea of troubles and to serve him as a guide In his
journey. The science of Astrology was held in such esieetn in
ancient India as to be recognized as one of the Angai of the
 Veda, though the term 'Jyothlsha Sastra' as It was then known
Included both Astronomy and Astroiogv. As Dr. Ralph Waldo
Emerson wrote, "Astrology is Astronomy brought to earth and
applied to the affairs of men." Of what use Is Astronomy to
mankind unless it is interpreted in terms of our daily life and
thought? Even well-known Astronomical authorities have
admitted that the manner In which the eastern nations had set
forth to make elaborate and costly arrangements for continual
observation of celestial pbenomena was not intended to advance
the cause of astronomy but to gain results of great astrological
value. They built observatories in order that, la the Long run, a
trustworthy system of astrology could be deduced by them from
the study of the motions of the heavenly bodies Incur own
Country, the subject was studied as part of the curricutum in the
'guru kulas' though in recent times its study has been neglected.

     Time is of the essence in Astrology as (nucb as in any other
aspect of life. Man cannot fulfil his obligations in society with-
out devising ways of recording the flow of time correctly, Phy-
cists are aware of the importance of time tr.casurement to them.
An agriculturist should know the correct time of sowing and
harvesting. Religious festivals have to pc cbservcdin time. And
so the need for correct astronomical ephemeris or panchan^as is
obvious.
     A panchacg qr alcnanac Is a bock of iofortnation relating to the
longitudes! etc. of the Sun, the Mood and the planets together with
the related pbenomcna. It coDtaios astronomical calculations
and furnishes the thithis (the lunar day), Vara (the wect dayl.
Nakshatra (the position of the Moon in Its orbit), Yoga and
Karana. A panchang Is to an Astrologer as finance is to a
buainestmaa.

     At present, s large number of aimaoacs appear in India every
year from different parts of the country and in different languages.
The makers of these panchaogs follow the siddhanta that appeals
to them, though Surya Siddhanta is the one widely followed.
During the period from 400 AD to 1200 AD, known as the period
of Siddhanta JyothUba, si many aa eighteen aiddhantai were In
application and these siddhantas persist in varying degrees in our
panchangs even to this day.         No wonder, therefore, these
almanacs vary widely is the positions of the planets and the time
when a (hitbi, naksbatra, yoga and karana begins or ends. Even
here, the time is stated In terms of gbatis and vlghatis which were
employed when watches and clocks were not available. Would
It not be advisable now to change over to the time mcasurcmca*
la hours and minutes which is in universal use rather than con-
fute the reader by compelling aim to find out the lime of Suryo-
dhaya in the locality, convert the ghatis and vighatis into equi-
valent hours and minutes and then add it to the Suryodhayakala
to arrive at the moment of beginning or end, at the case may be,
of a thitbi or oakshatra. No two almanacs agree as to when the
«un enters a particular rasi and when it leaves it and enters the
neat rasi or when the New Moon, Eut! Moon or Amavasya
(Moon-Sun conjunction) occurs. While one panchang considers
a certain time of a day beneficial for commencing a certain under-
taking being ruled by an auspicious yoga-according to it, the
other panchangs differ. There Is utter confusion in the pan-
changs in such fun'lamental matters like the beginning of the
ye^r, the solar months sad day, the lunar month and thithis.
There does not seem to be any uniformity among the panchanf
makers even In regard to the dates when (he religious festivals
are to be celebrated. The seasons have lost their traditional
association with the months and very frequently festivals as given
la the panchangs fall in the wrong season The consultant is
                               X)

naturally coDfouaded and Is at a loss to tnow which paochang to
follow. Can not all alBoanacs ensure uniformity and follow the
lead given by the National Calendar and prepare their panchangs
making use of the accurate data computed by the Nautical
Almanac Unit of the Governnoent of India in accordance with the
most up-to-date astronomical formulae and arrive at the
Nirayana positions of the planets by subtracting the Ayansmsa
commonly in use? Such a step, I am sure, will go far in narro-
wing the wide gap now existing among the almanacs.

     There exist a set of people who are blind to reason and still
follow and advocate the vakya system of calculations. The vakya
system came into being when the calculations suggested by Arya-
bhata to conform to the changes that had crept in the planetary
motions since the time of Surva Stddhanta were found to be
lengthy. To avoid this, certain astronomers like Varurachi
invented the Vakya method whereby rcadyraadc. calculated long-
itudes for small cycles and great cycles were worked out and it
was claimed that with the help of vakyas the planetary positions
including the Moon can be calculated with the facility.

     Can we imagine two sets of heavenly bodies, one answering
to the followers of vakya calculations and the other to those who
adopt the 'Drik' system? Jmpjssible. It appears that the tnakcra
of vakya panchauga due to their ignorance or diaincliQation to
learn the present methods of calculdtion are simply claiming
superiority on antiquity and following.

     We are all gifted with the faculty of reason and discrimi-
nation and, if as a result of teat, we come to the conclusion that
the 'Drik' method alone is correct we should let our reason
prevail to the exclusion of all other factors. A wise man Is
compared to the swan which knows how to separate milk combined
with water. Our ancients did expect us to revise the calculation
from time to time so thet the results arrived at agree with the
scientific and occular venfi'ation. According to them "Drik
karanakya vihecnah, khetas sthoolahas karmanam arhah," That
is to say, the positions of the planets found out by using a
caiculatioa incousisi with observational precession will only be
approximate and rough and not fit for religious observances.
                                 xti

They have also advised us to observe religious functions si «
time arrived at according to 'Drik' calculation alone "Mirtaham
Samankramya Chandalah Koti Jsnmasu". He who misses the
day of anniversary of departed soul is sure to be penalised by
births a crorc of times. That they do not want us to commit any
error in this respect, is thus amply clear.

      "Drik" means 'to see'. There is no such distinction in
astronomical calculations as visible calculations like the eclipses
and invisible calculations like the thitbis for which inaccurate
vafcya calculations could be followed as advocated by the
followers of the Vakya system. Thithis arc also visible as they
are 12 degree distances between the Sun and the Moon and can
be measured by astronomical instruments, and the same Sun and
Moon which cause eclipses cause thithis also. The simplest
method to verify the accuracy or otherwise of any system is to
observe the moment when an eclipse occurs or the moment when
it is New Moon or Full Moon and see whether it coincides with
the moment arrived at according to that system. The Drik system
passes the test, while the Vakya system utterly falls. If the time
of eclipse according to the vakya calculation is wroug, on the
same analogy the beginning and ending moments of tbe thithis
calculated according to that system should also be wrong. Arc
we still right in observing anniversaries of departed souls and
performing other religious functions according to the inaccurate
vakya thithis T

     There is difference between tbe calculations, old and new; For,
the elements of the planets and the data employed in the old
methods have not been subjected to any change, while in the new
method these have been rectified from time to time. While con-
verting the mean position of the planet (madhya graha) to the
true position (sputa graha), the old method employed only a small
number of inequalities while the new system takes several
inequalities into account. In respect of the Moon, the maximum
difference between the Vakya and Dnk systems may work out
to !7 ghatlkas of time (6 hours, 4a minutes) m tbithl and
naksbatra which are two important aogas of the almanac. So
also tbe position of Mars and Mercury give vast disparity in the
new system from those obtained according to tbe old method.
                               Xl!J

     The Hindus fix the dates of festivals, aaaiversary, birth day
«nd other ceremonies only on an astronomical basis. They do
not observe the rule "Thirty days have September, April, June
and November." The birth days or the aaoiversartcs are
celebrated not on fixed dates of fixed months, but based upon
thithis and naVshatras, As already said before, no religious
practices should be observed at wrong moments. Even for
Astrology, the calculations must be accurate. In Uttara
Kalamrlta, Kalidasa makes it very clear In Sloka 4 of Kanda I
that the exact positions of the planets are to be calculated
according to the Drik roetbod, Mantreswara echoes the same
sentiojent when he says in Phala Deepika "Ghathir Drik
Tbulyathvam Ganitha Karanaithr*, that is the position of the
planets coincident with observation should be used. We will do
well to follow the Drik system for then wc shall be wise, others
otherwise.
     When Westeners publish Ephemeris worked out by great
astronomers of today who calculate correctly to land in moon at
a specified point at the schedule moment, I do not find why we
should separately work and bring out almanace to erect dozen
horoscopes to the same person. Simply use thai Ephemeris where
daily position of planets is given; this book is a self-instructor.
Let it serve all and let us sec that one person has only one
horoscope.


"ABOUT THE AUTHOR"

    Jyothir Pandit HIRALAL SHARMA, Hon'y. Director,
    Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Ballahgarh,
    Mandir P.O., Banjar, District Kulu (Himacbai Pndesh).
         "When the Author visited in May 1969"
     How lucky wc, the people of Htmachal Pradesh, arc to have
the Darshanam of our Hon'ble Ouruji, Stnhtda Mannan,
Jyothish Marthand Sri K.S, Krishnamurtiji during bis visit to
our BANJAR vaUcy rn connection with the "take-over"
petenuny of our Sri Markandnya Astro-Cultural Institute,
Ballabgatb- Mandir, Banjar as the branch of Stellar Astrological
Research InHftute, Madras-15, of which our Guruji ia the
                               xiv

Fouoder and President, Indeed, we are fortunate, as Sri
Krishaatnurtiji responded promptly to the request made by the
members of our Institute and other well-wishers in Hltnacbai
Pradesh to visit Banjar during 'Banjar Fair' whereby a large
number of people would eojoy the benefit of his visit.
     As per the scheduled programme, our Gurujt reached Banjar
00  i4_5_69 at 10-45 ^.M.I.S.T. He was profusely garlanded
by the members of the Institute at the entrance of our sub-
office. We had brief halt in our sub-office and during the jolly
chat over the cup Guruji lucidly explained as to how wc were
destined to have the Darsban of Lord Uchchista Mahaganapathy
whom he brought with bim and ibe Darshan of Guruji, only at
this moment telling the importance, of the ruling planets at the
moment. We all were wonderitruck for the analytical brain our
Guruji displayed. We consider bim aa the learned son of
Goddess Saraswati—ao doubt at all. In the mcinwhite many
went up the bill to the maidan in front of the holy temple
of God Markandayaji.
     Then, we took Guruji to temple at Ballahgarh where at all
the members of our Institute ware eagerly awaiting Guruji's
arrival, Guruji by bis speedy steps, not minding the point he had
to encounter while followltig the zig-zag rocky tract, steep up the
bill, arrived at the destination, within 30 minutes. Sentormost
members of the Institute presented bouquets to welcome Guruji
■nd then Guruji had the Darsban of God Sri Markandayaji and
he offered prayers.
    Then he was taken by the President of our Institute to the
stage, specially erected. Immediately after the chair was
occupied by our Hon'blc Guest, President of our Institute made
the welcome speech, the extract of which I give facre-under;
      Welcome Speech made by Shri Jagat Ram Sharma,
 President, Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute.
      *1 personally and on behJlf of all the members of Sri
 Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Batlahgarh, Mandir,
 welcome the scholar of our Mother India, our respected Guruji,
 Jyotblsb Marthand Jsri JC S. Knshnamurliji. He has grasped
 all the Indian and Weatero Systems of Astro-Science. Finding
                              XV

numerous flaws in these traditional ones, he devoted many years
fn research wort and finally has succeeded In discovering an
unique formula of bis own to predict miracutouaty. His discovery
goes under ihe title "Krishnamurtl Padhdhatt"—a monunaental
work—appears to be humanly impossible. We call him the
Varahmihiracharya of our a%e. Wc pray that Lord Uchchfsta
Mabaganapathy may bestow upon hlnn a long span of life there-
by enabling him of further the cause of Astrology.
     Guruji, to propagate the exact Astrological Principles and
to Invoke the cultural feelings among the masses and rlvivc
the lost cultural heritage of India is the objective behind the
estabPabmcot of our Astro-Cultural Institute that was instituted
In May, tyfiJ A, D, Our institute has 3 active Oepartments—
Astronomical and Astrological Department headed by my grand-
son—Jyothi Pandit Hira Lai Sharraa; Cultural Department is
headed by Swami Sita Rainii; Vedacharya,—Music Group is
directed by Puran Chand Sharma, Radio-Singer. There are 41
members In our Institute. All are learned, industrious, gentle-
hearted and truth-scckers. A few of them are Sanskrit Scholars
who have mastered Traditional System. They had been serving
ihe Institute and the public for the last h years.
     We arc extremely thankful to your Honour, Sir. for having
recognized our Institute and taken it as your branch In Himachal
Pradesh. We hope that in future our Guruji will visit our
Institute atleast once a year and bless us all.
     In the end, T once again thank Sri. Krlshaamurlljl very
much for having visited Banjar from Madras in South India
without considering the trouble he had taken during the risky
travel in the hilly tract for nearly 300 K.M.
                      Sarva Shanti!
                      Jai Sambasadasivam.
    Introductory Speech made by Jothi Pandit Hira Lai Sbarma,
    Hony. Director of the Institute.
"Respected Guruji", President of the Institute and Gentlemen.
    It is our pleasant privilege to welcome Jyotbtsh Manhaod
Sri K. S. Krishnamurti, Founder and President of Sthllar
Astrological Research Institute, Madras-15, and the visiting
                                 xvl

frofcssor of Astrology appotntrd by the Kulapatiji K, M. Munsfci,
fhanccllor, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay, Sri, Krishaa-
.^urtiji is the greatest scholar in the science of stars today. His
is the master brain to discover Krishnamurti Padhdhati. He is
our Revered Guruji and we all bow before him.
     The science of stars is ts old as the earth itself. It is divided
into two branches, (i) Astronomy dealing with heavenly bodies
and (ib Astrology recognising their effects upon terrestrial affairs
and is by for the most difficult and much-lesfi understood one.
Every Individual wishes to tear the veil of so-called unknown
future and to see what destiny has got in store for bim. This is
rendered possible for him by Astrology, its edifice being based
upon, the Law of Karmas. Ancient savants of India and of
Western world had written huge volumes upon the subject,
Thousands of books have been handed down to us. But since
then, much water has flowed down the Thames,

    We are now living in the scientific age. We are travelling in
spaceships and not in age-old bull-carls. These traditional text-
books are found to be not useful for 20th century standard of
human race. These books are just glow-worms glowing at a
moment and extinguishing at another not steering the course for
a man in darkness all these being only for charm and admiration,

     Now the Aquarian age is fast approaching. But an aquarian
star has risen la the East tin Indian Soil]. He is our Revered
Guruji Jyothish Marthand Sri K.. S. Krishnamurti who has digested
Hindu and Western literature upon his subject, thoroughly.
Through his vast experience extended to 4o years he found that
the predictive principles enumerated in these books are general
and they miserably failed, failed and failed. So most of the
traditional astrologers have contributed sufficient to ridicule the
fair name of Astrology—the science of sciences. But Guruji has
laboured much to make Astrology as perfect a science as
Astronomy itself. By God's grace hts 10 years of deep research
born fruit and he bad devised an infallible formula to give Ib0%
accurate predictions uuiversally applicable to any type of
Horoscope~-Natal/Atmual/Horary. This formula is popularly
known as Krishuamurti Padhdhati a real gem-stone among the
stones.
                                 KVU

      Emtnent personagesof ouf Astro-Department with more than
2S years of experience to their credit in practically handlldg the
horoscopes have been wise enough to discard traditional systems
of boroscopic delineations and have now switched on to
Krisbnaoiurti Padhdhati. They have found that the principles
enunciated by Indian and Weatern Scholars are full of alternative
and ambiguities and even if property applied never pinpoint the
nature and time of transpiration of any event in question. They
agree with Guruji. If K. P. is followed strictly, predictions arc
100% accurate, clients are convinced and the Astrologer la
satisfied with the service he has done. K. P, has restored the
fair name of this celestial science and has put it on firm footing.
Defectors such as 'likely, probably, etc. bringing discredit to the
science have now mostly disappeared from the Bcenc with the
appearance of K..P. K.P. means "Past is past and future is made
KNOWN**. We correctly declare K.P, as an Encyclopaedia of
Astro-Science. So wc advice "Learn K P, You can win the
world,"

      Krishnamurti Padhdhati advises to follow only Raphael's
 Ephemeris with Krisbnamurti Ayanamsa or Ktishnamurti Ephe-
mcris (now published); RaphaePs Tables of Houses, with these to
erect to exact horoscope. Then note down the Lords of constel-
lations, i.e., Nakshatram as per Vim-Dasa LorJships (only Dasa
in Kaiiyuga to follow to find the time of cventsj the nine planets
and the cusps of 12 bouses fall (Sbri K.S.K. ftat divided for the
first lime in the history oj Astrology—a con^teliatiun span Id
dtgrees 20 minutest into furiher 9 suh-divisions. Spans of these
sub-divisions are in proportions to Dasa years allotted to 9 planets
as per Vim. Dasa. The planet to which a parlicular sob-division
is allotted with in the ]3'2t/ span of a constellation is called sub-
lord of the sub-divisiooX


     Then follow predictive principles exhaustively explained in
K.P. Vols. I and II and you will predict. Correctly only then,
you arc a 100% accurate Astrologer, As per K.P. It is so simple
to cast the chart; it is so easy to read ; it is so accurate a predi-
ction. There Is no magic; no yakshni; no devil; but product
of super human intelligence of our Gurujt, Shri Krishnamurtiji,
                              JLVlh

    We are very happy that Shri Krishparaurtij! has recognised
Shri Markandaya Astro Cultural Institute as his branch Id
Hlmacbal Pradesh and we are extremely thankful to his Honour
for having taken so much pains fo coming to Banjar from Madras.
May Lord Ucbchlsta Mahaganapathi bless hint with a long span
of Ufe,
     I thank you all for vour co-operation In making ibe function
a grand success.
     Then Guruji delivered hti Inaugural speech. Photographs
were taken. After having luncheon, Guruji had been predicting
to all the mass of people. Of them, there was an American,
    In the night, our Music Department arranged a cultural pro-
gramme to welcome Guruji. Deep Astrological conversations
were held till 12 midnight,
     I vividly remember bow this JAtnerican's, viz. Solomon's
disbelief in Astrology being an exact science was suddenly chang-
ed Into iirro belief when he got letter from his wife on 24-5-69
afternoon as predicted by our Guruji on 16-5-69 at 8-00 P.M-
I.S.T. at Banjar. Incidents continue to pour in to confirm K.P.
but time and space don't allow me to narrate.)
    On the following day Guruji had Dharshan of God Srloga
Rishlji (Rishya Sriagai, who usually comes on 15th May every
year to Banjar from his Ashram—meditation place to inaugurate
3 day 'Banjar Fair'.
    Introduction about Srlnga Rishiji was given by Thakur Lai
Singhiji Deepak, B.A., B.Ed., a senior member of the staff of
Government Model Higher Secondary School, Banjar.
    "Sir,
     Lord Sringa Rishiji Maharaj lived till he was young with his
father Shri Bbabhandak Risbl in the thick forests of Central India.
Bhubandak Risbi advised his son to go to the Himalayas to ao
unfrequented place for deep meditation ; he asked him to be away
from the disturbances so that he can acquire spiritual uplift;
God Sringa Rishi obeyed his father. He selected a very beauti-
ful calm, peaceful and pleasant place, viz. Skiran, in Himalayas
at about 11,000 feet height noted for its agreeable atmosphere
                               SIX

aud majestic natural scenery. It is very near Badjar, only a mile
off.
     Dasaratha, toe King of Ayodhya was worried.       He was
anxious to have children. Considering his advanced age, he lost
every hope to be get any issue. He was advised by his
counsellors headed by Swami Vishwaraitra, to perform a great
yagna under the personal direction of Lord Sringa Rishijj,
Dasmatba agreed to this proposal and Lord Sringa Rishiji was
brought to Ayodhya by fairy tactics. Any how a great Yagna was
performed and Lord Rama and his brothers were born. Then be
returned to hisiplace viz. Skiranand was absorbed again in deep
penance Guruji, It is that Lord Sringaji Maharaj whose
Dharsbanam we are having today.
    Indeed'wc arc fortunate today to have the blessings rrotn
two Maharishis —Lord Sringaji Maharaj and Rev, Krishna-
murtiji who wrote K.P.—a great Granthraj. May God give him
success after success!"
     Another meeting was held on 16-5-69 in the school campus
of Government Mode! Higher Secondary School, Banzar, District
Kulu. Distinguished persons of the valleys and about 600
students of the school attended the meeting. Pandit Puran
ChandjiT Radio Singer & S. E. P. O. Deparlmetit of Community
Development gave the melodious musical recitation as Maogala-
cbaranatn. Then the welcome speech was read by the Principal
of the School, Extract is as follows :—
     Sbri O P. Sud, M.A , B.T.
     "Respected Guruji, Gentlemen and dear Students !
     1 am extremely happy to-day to welcome Sbrj (C. S. Krishna-
murtiji only visiting Professor of Astrology in India, on his visit
to Banjar to inaugurate the affiliation of Sn Markandaya Astro-
Cultural Institute to Stellar Astrological Research Institute,
Madras-15.     He has pioneered the Stdlar-Science and is the
discoverer oj Krishnamurti Padhdhatl—a hall mark in the predi-
ctive part of Astronomy to give accurate predictions, which are
now being proved 100% correct. He has kindly agreed to deliver
his valuable lectures to a iarge gathering assembled over here.
Hit lectures will surely evoke the students to learn Astrology
                                X*

during tbcir School and College career. He has proved beyond
and doubt that Astrology is an exact science and a useful one for
Hindus to be included In the school curriculum. The Science
hfld been held in high esteem through the ages. / take thiM
oppor(unt!y to request him to publish a seriei of graded books,
suitable tJ the students of various categories in early understand-
able lar^Mge especially in Hindi, which is spoken in Himachal
Pradesh and majority of States of India.
     In the end. I again, thank Goruji very much for the trouble
he has so kindly taken (o come to Banjar from Madras in South
India.
              WHAT SHRI M.KITTUR SAYS!
             THH NEW LIGHT OF JYOTISHYA
   (Shri Kitlur explains the system and the significafice of
   Shri K.S. Krislmamurti in the highest of the technicalities
   of the new science. He spreads his canvas wide and
   narrates the developmcrits from the past to the present.)
    This is in an age of exploratioos. All the reaLms of science
are being explored; space has been conquered nuclear energy
has been mastered, and the divine stellar region has also been
Explored.    The credit of Che stellar conquest goes to
K, S, Krishnamurti.
      Prior to the research of Krishnamurti ibis divine subject of
astrology was based on shaky foundations and had lost Its divine
grace. Importance, and utility to mankind. It was because of this
science being handled by quacks to earn their living that it lost all
its divine grandeur. Under such circumstances, (his 'Jyotishya
Shastra' lost its 'Light* (jyatf) and became the object of ridicule
and despise Sri Krishnamurti, restored the lost light to this
science and made it perfect again. The science which only had
tbc privilege of "Pancha Bhuvati pancha na Bbavati" is no* on a
itrong foundation known as "Krishnamurti Padhdhati." Sri
Krishnamurti, after continunus research of over period of 3
decades has evolved his own system, which enables an astrologer
to give meticulously correct predictions. Sri Krishnamurti iaya
that those who cell astrology a science of tendencies and proba-
bilities are not astrologers at all. There is no place for
uacettaiuuer in Krishnamurti Padhdhati.
                                XXI

     This research has not beeoany easy task to Sri Krishnamurti.
In the beginning bis predictions too failed. Being bestowed with
an inquisitive naiad, he carried on his research, unioindful of the
difficulties that came in his way. His convulsive efforts bore him
fruit, when he discovered that deciding factor HIsi'SUB' gives a
definite clue and surprisingly accurate prediction

     One may ask what is the 'SUB' which it plays such a prc-
dotoioant role in this system? The 'SUB' is one of the nine
divisions of a constellation, divided in the order and the proportion
of Virnshottari dasa system, Traditional astrologers make use
of constellations only in fixing the balance of Dasa at the time
of birth whereas Sri Krishnamurti uses the constellations and the
sub to offer predictions, of twn.s which are born with a differ-
ence of few minutes. In cases of both planetary positions
remain the same and in such horoscopes traditional astrologers
should predict alike in both cases. But actually both persons lead
altogether different lives. It is Krlshnamurtrs 'SUB' that would
decide even the minute difference and helps In giving correct
predictions for both 'he twins.

     Manv traditional astrologers after being convinced about tne
truth and utility of bis system, Switched on to his method, cast-
ing away the traditional method which has no definite principles.
Krishnamurti's system has definite principles which are univer-
sally appticablc.

     People within aud out oue India are very ranch eager to have
darshana of I his scholar. We, the citizens of Hubli-Dhar war the
very much forlun itc to have this master minded genious amidst
us and to listen to his scholastic lectures on his discoveries and
techniques. It would not be an exaggeration if Sri Krishnamurti
is called 'Adhunik Varahannhir'. May Lord Maha Ganapati bless
Prof K. S. Knshnamurti with long life and opportunity to spread
his knowledge.
                               xaii

WHVT SHRl v. K. SRlNtVAS^N, Jt SECRETARY, S.A.R.E
   MANDANDAWELA. MATALE, CEYLON-SAYS!

         (The truths needed are exposed to the severals who
       required them. Shri. Srinivasan answers to certain doubts,
       comments and compliraents sent to this Institute about
       Shri Kmhnamurti and Krishnamurti Padhdhati—Edfror.)

     Astrology a very aocieDt Seience-preached and prictiaed by
our saints, sages and nobles, was a divine gift to us. (a course
of time, when it had fallen into the hands of the unworthy and
incompetents, it lost its glory. Even truths were eclipsed and
clouds of doubts spread in wilderness,

     1^1961, ccrtain'traditloaal Astrologers threatened that then
would be 'destruction of world' at large. This false propaganda
increased the density of clouds ot doubts and fear arasog (be
masses. At that time, a silent and salient scholar, born on
1-11-1908 at TANJORE, was compelled to come to lime light to
expose the real truths of this noble Science. His vast experiences
and fruitful researches of three decades made him to undertake
long journeys to all parts of India, to alleviate the minds of fear
and the ignorant rid off any misconception due to the configura-
tion of the eight planets in Makara and ensure peace of mind to
Billions in and out of India. His action thunderstruck several
trad it io uals who thrived on falsehood and ignorance of others.
Attacks and criticisms grew. Days, months and years passed
away; Planets too moved away frcm the sign of configuration
but nothing happened to the world at large. Masses understood
the false propaganda and the Texts of the traditionals, not as the
question of need but as the question of greed,

     Shri Krishnamurti's preachings and practices were en-
hanced with more vigour on receipt of Uchista Maha Ganapathy
from Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Kamakoti in 195L From this
time, be started the transmission of the fruits of bis research and
knowledge, to the students of astrology who met him daily in the
evenings. His services were admired by the learned who
encouraged him to extend the benefits of his researches to all,
through -ASTROLOGY Sl ATHRISHTA".
                              xxill

     This mBD is do God mot eveo Brabtna but an ordinary
mortal,) Nor was he a saint or sage. This mortal with young
spirit researched and released bis immortal astrological treaties
tbrougli his grand work, KR1SHNAMURTIPADHDHATI. There
arc several hundreds of texts in the market; interpretation of
same slokas, yogas and combinations by different authors ; but
bis few books have outweighed all others. Definitely his ability
cannot be judged by any tnorial, merely by counting the number
of texts be released, as you cannot judge fishes as more precious
than diamonds merely because they are plenty in market.
     This Geld Medalist and holder of the title JYOTlSH MAR-
THAND, conferred by the then Governor of BoEiibayl His
Excellency Shri Chcrian, is simple in thought and living. His
power to transforai the starters into stars confirms the perfect-
ness of his preaching in K. P. besides bis ability Perhaps the
greatest quality of this Jyotish Marthand IC S, Krlshnanourti,
perhaps his most noteworthy virtue is that be does not himself
belong to that class of astrologers of "ifs and buts", "probables
and possibilities1' and "chances and tendencies".

     Correspondsoces reveal certain caUaboratlons of the tradi-
tional astrologers They who failed miserably in their system
took shelter under K. P ; praised at the beginning and provoked at
last The pangs of jealousy, envy and anger, which gnawed at
their heart, did not allow thsm to study the truths-properly and
master K, P. Their failures become the failures of Science and
thereby they failed to see the light of (ruth. As long as your
heart is impure you cannot see the light of truth. When Sun is
exactly over your head, there will be no shadow. Similarly when
faith in K.P. is steady in heart, it should not cast any shadow of
doubts in its principles and predictions. Hence dive deeply into
this sea and discover the might of the creator. There is no use in
dipping near the shore and swearing that sea Is shallow and has
 no pearls. Dive deep; you will secure your desire. It is certain.

    Krishnamurti Padhdhati symbolises perfection of predictions
and realisations, (t throws more light on the truth of planets,
correct Interpretation of bouses and correct casting of horoscopes.
Casting of horoscopes with the help of ruling planets is a novelty,
nracliscd by him and his followers. Application of correct
                                  ixiv

 ayacamsa ?sd ruliag planers to pio-point events to ihe exact
 hour, minute and second are additional distinctions to his
 researches and ability.
      Being in Government Service, he bad the opportunity to
 collect many hundreds of horoscopes of twins for researches,
 which resulted la the discovery of SUB theory which was not
 dawned to any olc ; not even to the saints and sages. His
 interpretation of Nodes is the offerings o f his practical experiences.
 As innovator of the HORARY SYSTEM, his analysis, judgements
 and conclusion are methodical, meticulous and marvellous.
     On being given a number below 249, his ability to form a
map of heaven mentally, analyse the planetary positions and
strength, select the signiheators, etiminatc the redundants, check
up with the ruling planets, coming to candid judgement, proving
with divine guidance and offering the final results within three
minutes after giving prayers to UCHCHISTA MAHA GANA-
PATHY are thrilling memorable actions of this intellect.
       When others struggle to rectify the birth time, he with great
  ease, fines the correct birth time up to the exact seconds with the
  guidance of ruling planets. Recently, bli services were duly
  recognised in Malaysia, by conferring the title SOTHIDA
, MANNAN and presentation of GOLD MEDAL. His prediction
  extended well in advance, during his visit in Malaysia, about the
  defeat of the so called 'lion* of Vaddukoddai seat by a newiy
  entered 'cat' in the recent election held on 27—0—1970, proved
  to be the prediction of prefection, accuracy and realisation,
     Giving meticulous and candid prediction is the crowning point
in Krishnamurtl Padhdhati, What la the use of astrology If
correct predictions cannot be given after such laborious studies
and researches? This is the main reason why astrology is
ridiculdcd and condemned by a few due to the poor judgements
and predictions given by the so called psofessors and doctors of
this Science. At the same time, this few should understand that
Science never fails but Scientists. Blame those Scientists whether
doctors or astrologers for their misadventures and not Medicine
or Astrology. Shri Krisbnamurti is neither a self styled
professor nor a doctor as he was a Sanitary Inspector in Govern-
ment Service and is a visiting Professor of Astrology at Bharatiya
                               XXV

Vidya Bhavan. It is not the question of titles and savings 1 at
that of the true and sincere service to mankind,
     Basic fundamentais are same whether it is traditional or not,
as the structures of all human body are same but not their deeds.
Flour and sugar-the basic requirements of all sweets are same, but
flour ' ad sugar separately will not form sweets. Fundamentals
from the saints and sages with the fruitful researches of Shri
Krlshramurti had resulted in the production of KRISHNA-
MURll PADHDHAfl. Today-Thurjday Is commori to all, but
it depends on how we make the best use of it.
     Allocation of 6 years and 10 years to Sun and Moon
respectively in Vimshodhari dasa system is a fundamental dasa
given to us by our ancients and it is ridiculous to analyse as to
why it was done so. Other than correctly applying the same for
future predictions; as two and two when added together given
four, whether it is Eastern or Western and there is no dispute
about it. Certain fundamentals like dasa bukthi, anthra, rasi,
ownership, planets, days, months, etc, are common to all and
□one can claim them as their own.
     Krishnamurti system is based on rational foundations and
when tested brings more tribute to the Creator. Practical appli-
cations of this system in daily life bring more confidence on the
creator and do not give rise to any contention that planets do not
compel but impeP. Faith on Creator will bring belief in Destiny
and what is to happen without fail according to the Destiny or
Past Karma. Hence do not vacillate at, it will only fritter away
your time, energy and efforts when in pitch darkness, everything
appears level but day reveals the hights and holiows. It is only
ignorance speaks equality of theirs to this KRISHNAMURTI
PADHDHATI.
     How do you know that today is 19th Nov. 1970? Some
person or authority whom you trust or respect or inclined to
follow, said that today is 19(h November 1970 ; that is all. This
paper is white, "Why and How" could not be answered by
any. Since one faits, it does not mean non-existence. Agree-
ment and faith will help you to achieve your desire in this field
through KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI.
                         GOOD LUCK
THE MOTHER EARTH

    The earth, which is our home, offers a deceptive appea-
rance, as though it is Oat, plala and circular, with its boundary,
the horizon But It is actually round, like a ball.
     Galileo used the interesting and simple method to prove that
the earth is round like a sphere. He observed the face of the
earth during lunar eclipse and noted the shadow of the earth on
the tnooQ. It was, as it is seen even now, distinctly circular. The
eclipse of the moon may last for some hours. Yet due to the
spinning of the earth its circular shadow on the moon remalni,
during the dutallon of eclipse, it does not get changed.
     Another proof is that, if a person commences his journey
from one place—say, Nfadras—and moves In the same direction,
either due Bast or due North or duo South without changing
hi^ course, he will return to bis starting place, i.e., Madras itself.
It will be just like an ast, proceeding in any one direction on
an apple or on a lime fruit, returning to the same starting
point.
     There is also a direct proof, after so much advancement of
the science. If one looks at the earth from a far-off place, In
space away from the earth, one will Bad that the earth appears
like a ball. We, on the earth, cannot note it. But photographs
taken from a great distance by the Rockets which are fired up
will show the curvature of our earth quite clearly and distinctly.
      If It becomes possible for one to go to Moon, take the
photograph of the earth and send It on to us, we will find that
the earth Is round nod wit) appear just like what the Sun and
the Moon appear to be, to us, on earth, but a little bigger in
size.
    Only by such methods, one# cm prove that the earth is
round and Its looks lite a big ball. The earth is about 7,900
miles in diameter and it about 24^47 miles In circumference.
no page missing, go next
 No one had ever gone around (he earth wllh a measuring tape or
 pole and actually measured it. It was computed by our sages
and also by Eratosthenes in Egypt thousands of years ago,
 Eratosthenes took the angular elevation height at which the Sun
 appeared at the same time from two cities situated at a fairly
long distance, say 5fW miles. He found the difference m the
angle of vision. The World is round, i.e., 360°. So he calcula-
ted the distance between these two cities and took the difference
in the angles for calculation. He divided 360° by this difference
in the angles of vision and multiplied the result by the known
distance between these two cities. Similar calculaiicins were
made on different occasions and all (he results were found to be
the same. Thus the circumference is worked out. Then the
diameter Is calculated as it is impossible to measure ,(. There
is the difmite mathematical relationship between the diurreter
of a circle and its circumference 22/7. So the diameter is also
arrived at by using the formula that circumferecce when multi-
plied by seven and the product divided by twenty-two gives the
diameter.
    Toe circumference is not the same at all places on the earth.
As a result of rotation, the earth is bulged at the equator
and flattened at both the poles. That is why the earth looks like
an oblate spheroid.
     The eatlh is ever spinning. It moves in space. It was
worked out in 1 ?27 by Jfradley that the earth sails in the space at
a speed of nearly 18^ miles or nearly 10 K. Ms : per second. It
comes to nearly 66,1)00 miles, equivalent to nearly one lakh
K. Ms. per hour, i.e., about 386.1)00,000 miles in a year. It is
really very hard to believe. Can these figures be a fact?
Doubt arises. Because, it does not appear to any one that ihe
earth is ever moving non-stop and that also at this tremendous
speed. If one stands outside and looks around the buildings
and various objects, the earth, neither looks like a ball, nor d' cs
it appear to him to move, nor does he feel it. But he find.: a
smooth surface, or hills and mountains appearing to be
perfectly still.

    But when be looks at the sky during the day time, the Sun
appears to rise in the East in the morning and set in the West in
                                 3

the evening. If he looks at the sky at night, he finds a few bright
stars and many faint ones, scattered at random and moving from
East tq West, again appearing once more just like a large number
of soldiers maintaining the same relative positions, and marching
forward in the same direction. The sky appears to be a greater
sphere enveloping the earth, and the stars appear again and
again day after day, month after month, year after year, the
Heavens, the theatre; the scene and the actors of to-day are the
same ones which our ancestors saw thousands of years ago.
People in olden days traced pictures of the heavens; the
Egyptians drew on Papjrus, the Americans painted on buffalo
skins, the Greeks carved on marbles and the Babylonians marked
oe stones,

     They found that the very fact that all the heavenly bodies
conimue the process of rising, setting and again nsmg and so on,
should not be due to the moiiou belonging to ihem. It is oecause
the earth nseii rotates Eastward, i.e., from West to East. The
observer on the earth is rotating along with the earth and to him
the heavens appear to move in the opposite direction from East
to West, Suppose, one takes one's seat on a revolving chair and
sees people all around, standing at different distances. When
the chair makes a round without one's kno Viedge, from West to
East, then the people will appear as though they move from East
to West, Have we not noticed while moving in a tram m a
particular direction, the trees and posts on either side of the
railway line appear to move m the opposite direction 7 Thus the
sky makes a funny impression upon us, to p.-ople at different
latitudes, i.e., plrices in the northern and in Hie soutnern half of
the earth, the sky offers a different stage and actors, it is due to
the fact that the earth is round and it spins round on rs axis
which is titled by 2bu-^7' to the vertical in space.

     If one observes daily the sky at the extreme North, he will
notice a bright star ever remaining in the same place, whereas a
few imm edialcly near, round it; many in the middle of the sky
rise in the East, pass over the head and set in the West, and so
on. For observers m the  i middle of the earth, one star in the
North will appear to touch the nort hern most point of the horizon
and remain there permanently without rising or setting, but
                                  4

appearing all the boun of the night 1q the same potition.       It is
called the Pole Star,
     But if the observer proceeds due North, be will find that the
fined star, viz,, that Pole star, moves slowly upwards In the
horizon and also southwards in the sky. If be continues to
proceed further, at a particular place, he will find this star, just
over his head.
      If thcjouiDey is made still further. It will be surprising to
observe that the Pole star doss not proceed towards South la the
8ky but retraces and takes a northern course and goes away from
the observer. Thus, by making to and fro movemeats In that
area itself, one can fis the exact place which is just below the
 Noth Pole Star. This place or point on Ibc earth Is called NorrA
 pole     Similar experiments will aid one to fix the South Pole of
the Earth.
    For people in the North Pole, there Is no East or West, Tbey
have only one direction, i e.. South. Similarly for people la the
South Polo, there is no East or West but only one direction. I.e.
North.
    During summer, between March 21 and September 22, tbe
shadow of a person in the North Pole will appear moving round
and round himself. Because the Sun does cat incline to the
horizon throughout the day, as it does in other 1l.nudes, but take*
a course almost parallel to the horizon. The Sun never hies
above 2 4* for people at the Pole. The shortest shadow at the
Pole is at least 2, 3 times the height of the object on and around
fune 22ad casting the shadow, which Is equal in length to the
shadow we may have, some         boufs after sunrise io our locality.
Thus one can fix the position of the North Pole, and similarly of
the South Pole which are the extreme North and extreme South
points of tho earth.
      If one Imagines to tuscrt a road in the North Pole and drive
it straight to the centre of the earth and further more pile it,
then it will find its exit Jo the South Pole. This is the real diame-
ter of the earth is called the axis of the earth about which the
earth revolves from West to East with a uniform motion or about
 1.040 miles an hour at the Equator, and thus covers the 25.000
miles of circumference of the earth in about 24 hours.
                                5

To Locale A Place On Tbe Earlb
     To fix the posUion of an an object to a plane, we have to
divide tbc plane by drawing 2 sets of parallel lines at equal
Intervals, perpendicular to each other. If it is to be located,
draw lines passing through the "A" parallel to the lines of
reference.
     Now take OX and OY the two lines, one longitudinal and the
other perpendicular to It as the lines of reference. Note where
                                  "A" lies In the horizontal lino
                                  and also in the perpendicular
                                  one, T be number of these lines,
                                  say 6 and i will locate and fia
                                  the position of "A". These
                   (1             pnmb. rs arc termed as "Co-
                                  OrdiDales'' of A. "O" is called
                                  the origin. OX is the axis of
                                  rcfercDce horizontally and OY is
                                  the axis of reference vertically.
                                  This method is used to find out
                              _ and fix tbc position of any point
in the plane.
   But It is not so                             PoyE
easy, to locate places
on the surface of the
earth, as it is a sphere.
Join North Pole and
South Pole by any                                          •a
straight line.        Or
itnagiuo to join North
Pole and South Pole
by the axis. Draw
lines perpendicular to
the North Pole and
the South Pole at all
dtsianccs on the sur-
faccofthecarth. Then                   >«y,.Tr„r
lines EW, El, WI, E2, W2 cut the earth In circles. Of these
circles, that which is exactly oalf-wsy between tbe two poles r
                                 6

(he biggest circle and its centre is the centre of the earth. This
imaginary line called yishavafekals termed as the Earth's Equator.
Hence Equator is an imaginary line on the surface of the earth
ruoDtsg midway between the two poles, North and South, divid-
ing the earth exactly Into two halves, the northern hemisphere
and the southern hemisphere.

     To all the lines EW; HI, W1 ; E2. W2 and so on imagine
the perpendicular lines are drawn on the surface of the earth.
Those lines will invariably pass through the North Pole In the
North and the South Pole in the South. They also form circles
having the centre of the earth as their centre. Those perpendi-
cular circles are called Meridians. Therefore Meridians are the
Imaginary lines on the surface of the earth drawn perpendicular
to the equator passing through the North Pole and the South
Pole.

      To locate the position of a place on the surface of the earth,
it is necessary to have any one circle EW Past to West selected
for reference and any one pet pendicular Meridian also.

     In India, In olden days, Ujjain was the place of reference.
But now, for the whole world, Greenwich is taken internationally
for reference. A meridian Is drawn through Greenwich, i.e., a
perpendicular is dropped to the Equator from Greenwich. It ii
projected on both sid;s. This line-meridian passes through the
North Pole and South Pole. Let this mcridtan cut the equator
at "O". if a place '*0" is to be located, drop a perpendicular
from D to the Equator. Let it cut the Equator at "X". Refer
from (he point O longitudinally along the Equator till the Point.
"X" where the meridian drawn through "D" cuts the Equator.
Thli length OX is called the Longitude of the place "D".

     Then for the other measurement perpendicular to the Equa-
tor, cneasure the arc XD which is called the Latitude. Longtitude
may be East or West of Greenwich, whereas Latitude (Akabaissa)
is North or South of the terrestrial Equator.

     Greenwich is chosen for reference i.e., the Meridian pasting
through Greenwich), Longitude and Latitude are (he co-ordintiiea
of • place on the surface of the earth,
                                 7

     The earth is round. The distances are not measured in miles.
But, as the lines drawn froro circles, they are divided into 360.
Hence, if one were to stand In North Pole and were to loot in
the direction of Greenwich and then turn his head towards the
place to he located, how far, one has to turn is measured as
Longitude. U >s the angle that is formed in (he Poles, i.e., the
angle formed by the Meridian passing through Greenwich and
that passing through the required place; this is called the
 Longitude of the place.
     The line of meridian passing through North Pole and South
Pole also forms a circle- of 360°. This is divided into 4 equal
parts. Hence Equator to North Pole is 90' and Equator to South
Pole is 90* on one hemisphere; sb also in the other hemisphere
ninety and ninety degrees. Longitude will be between 0* to 180*
Bast or West whereas Latitude wit) be between 0 to 90* North or
South. The Longitude is also expressed as so many degrees,
minutes aud seconds East or West of Greenwich.        It is also
reckoned in time at the rate of 24 hours, xir 1,440 minutes for
the 360* or 4 minutes for erery degree.

     If one actually measures the distance of 2 places oo the
equator situated 1* away, it will be longer than the distance
between two places situated in higher latitudes, even though they
are said to be only 1* apart from each qther. As one prodfecds
northwards or southwards of the Equator, he will find the length
of each degree of Longitude getting reduced and reduced.

     Suppose one wants to know the location of Delhi. Then It is
measured how far North it is from the Equator and how far East
from Greenwich. If a reference is made to the index in an atlas
or to the map of India, it will bo found to be 2h 38' North and
77* 12', East. If New York is to be located, one is to note how
far north ft is from the Equator and how far West from Greenf-
wich. If a place in Australia is to be fixed, measure how^for
South it is from (he Equator and bow far East it Is from
Greenwich.

    If Delhi is safd to be 77' 12' East and 28' 38' North, it mcafts
that It Is 77* 12' East of Greenwich. The arc of the Equator
between the points where the meridians through Greenwlcb aotj
                                 I

Delhi cut is 77* 12' i.ct, 77° 12' loogiiude East, The arc of the
Meiidiaa through Delhi, measured from Delhi to the point where
the meridian cuts the Equator is 2ls0 3h* which is its Latitude.
     If longitudinallv the measurement is made both eastwards
and westwards, 180° East will coincide with i80* West. Both will
coincide and they are one and the same line which will cross the
Pacific Ocean from the Aletian to the Fiji Islands. It is called the
/nfer/wn'ora/ Date Line. (Here each new day has its birth at the
moment when it will be exactly 5-3CVP.M. I.S.T.) That is why,
Ephcmeris is worked out for 12 Noon Greenwich which is the
real birth of the next day for the people in the international Date
Line and also for the world). This line has been exactly defined
by International agreement, Here lies the threshold of our
calendar.
     It is from this point, every day, every month and every year
starts. Each day of the month commences here earlier than
anywhere else in this world. From here it marches West circnm-
navjgates the Globe and again returns to its birth place to vaoish
and appear as the next day. In olden days, before this Incr-
natipoal Date Line was established, the mariners who circum-
navigated the globe miscalcalated the days.    Because, when one
sails continuosiy westward*, he fallows the Sun in its path and at
the time he returns to the point of his departure, he should gain
24 hours upon those who remained there; one should calmly
think over this truth for a while when he will be convinced and
agree. Therefore if one sails for some days from East to West
he loses a day and one has to add a day; if he sails from West
»o East he has to count one and the same day twice, just when
he crosses this international Date Line,
     The Date Line as is agreed by the nations does not exactly
coincide with the 180th meridian everywhere For convenience
the whole of Eastern Siberia has the same date and the extreme
Aleutian and Hawaiian Islands have the same date like the other
Islands of those groups and the United States.
     Fiji and Chatham Islands have the same date as Australia
and New Zealand, because these places arc closely connected
politically and geogiaphicaliy. Hence the Date Liue is slightly
irregular though it follows very closely ISO meridian.
                                 9

      A surprising thing is that the total duration of a day in the
 entire globe is 48 hours and not 2l hours. It is a fact. Suppose
you arc within a few miles West of International Date Line when
the day commences at midnight, and stay there till 12 noon.
How many hours have passed ? 12 hours are over on that dale.
Imagine that you start flying always keeping the Sun overhead
and go westward The Sun is ever above your head i e., it is 12
noon whereever you fly. So nearly 24 hours you have flown.
Stop a mile East of the International Date Line, What has
 bappened 7 First before starting, 12 hours have passed between
 12 midnight and the following 12 noon. Then, wherever you are,
it is 12 noon as you fly at the speed of the earth's rotation. So far
21 hours you have travelled. You have arrived in a place just
East of Interaational Date Line and the time is 12 noon at the
time of your arrival on the same day and date in this place.
Take rest for 12 hours to complete the day. Another 12 hours
you stay here in the East of the Date line. So 12 hours stay at
home, the place of departure, 24 hours of flight around the
world and 12 hours stay here, the place of arrivdl, make up a
total of 48 hours, though marking the same date and calling the
day by the same name.
     Similarly, a day will be missed if you start just in the East of
Internatioaul Date Line and proceed towards the West, cross it
zo reach a pla^e West of it. You will lose a day.
    There are so many pleasant and surprising peculiarities.
They are not necessary for astrologers. It is enough if one knows
about the Poles, the Equator, the Longitude, and Latitude.

THE HEAVENS
      Now let us look at the sky.        It ap^ean as though a
hemispherical ball is placed like a cap on the earth. You com-
plete (he sphere. Then it will appear like a very huge globe and
it is called the Celestial Sphere, Ah heavenly bodies appear to
move in the Heavens even though they are at different distances
from the earth Suppose there is no obstruction to have a view
for a long distance and if you find people walking along a road,
even though they may not be in the same line, they will appear
K be walking one behind the other in a line. This is due to the
                               10

great distance at which the observer is placed from the cioviog
mass. A person standing on one bank of the Ganges cried that
the horse grazing io the other basic bad bor&s. The fact is that
there was a cow beyond the horse and the horns of the cow were
just near the head of the horse—even the photo taken appears
like that—a deceptive one. Why 7 Because the distance between
the observer and the animals is great, Similarly, on account of
the large distance, the heavenly bodies appear to be situated on a
spherical dome. To us it appears as a sphere, an imaginary one.
with the earth as centre and the various distances as radius

     !f we produce the axis of (he earth both ways passing through
the North Pole and the South Pole, it will meet the horizon la two
points which are called the Celestial Poles, North and South
reipectivcly. In reality, the earth revolves from West to East on
its axis. So the sphere, i.e., the heavens appear to move in the
opposite direction, i.e., from East to West. The heavenly bodies
seem to make circles on the sphere prependicular to the axis
      If you join all the itnagfoary midpoints between the North
Pole and the South Pole of the ccleatlal sphere, it will form «
circle. U is called Celestial Equator, ff the plane of the
Equator of the earth is produced to meet the Celestial sphere, it
will cut (be sphere in the bigger circle which is nothing but the
line joining the mid-points as obtained above. The Celestial
Equator is an imaginary line in the heavens, such as the earth's
rotation would cause to be traced out by an infinitely long verti-
cal pole, erected at any one point on the terrestrial Equator.
Technically speaking, it is the projection of the earth's Equator,
upon the celestial sphere The Celestial Equator divides the
heavens into two halves; the northern hemisphere and (he
southern hemisphere.
     Now draw prependicular lines to this celestial equator.
These will and most pass through the two Poles. A series of
circles prependicular to the Celestial Equator drawn will joint at
the Poles. The pa rallel prependicular fines will appear smdlar
to the two parallel Railway lines appearing to unite at a distance.
Here, the railway lines only appear to join. But in the Poles
they actually join just like the oranges, thicker in the middle,
getting narrower as they near the end. These circles crossing the
                                n

Celeatial Equator at right angles and passing through the two
poles arc called Declinaiion Circles, euabltog one to fix an object.
North or South of the Celestial Equator.
     The locate the position of star or a Planet in the Heavens,
two circles arc necessary. One circle is the Declination perpendi-
cular to the Equator. Distance of objects found in the North of
the Celestial Equator ('Nadicrita') is said to be positive and those
situated in the southern hemisphere are said to be negative.
Declination is called "tCrantl" in Sanskrit.

     Now which point in the Celestial Equator and in the
declination circle is to be taken for reference, is the question.
Since these are circles, there should he a starting point In each
circle.
     if one were to observe the pathway of the Sun, it will be
seen that the Sun slowly moves from the South of the Celestial
Equator towards the North nearing the Celestial Equator and at
one time crosses the Celestial Equator during Its northern course
at one point, Nowadays the Sun crosses this point on the 21st
March of every year when the night and the day arc equal. So,
that point in the Celestial Equator where the Sun crosses it, from
South to North, is taken for reference and the distance are
always measured only in one direction (not 00 both sides from
this point), i.e., Eastward and complete the circle of 360*. So
an object may be at lO" or 40° or 150"' or 359" from this point.
This measurement is called Right Asecension, In the earth, the
 Longitude is measured both East and West of the meridian of
Greenwich and hence the maximum distance that can be recorded
Is 180°.
      But in the Celeatial measurement, it is Between 0* and 360'
 as it Is measured m the Eastern Directton alone, along the
 Celestial Equator. If one observes me pathway of the Suu, it
 appears to slide, slowly move northwards further, for 3 months
 from the time it crossed the quator and then take a southern
 course and cross (from North to South) the Celestial Equator at
 a point which is exactly 160' away from the point where the Sun
 originally crossed the Celestial Equator while ptoceeding from
 South to North. These two poir«® ure called Equinoctial Points,
                                 12

The point of inlersectioa of the Celestial Equator and Sun's
annual path (the ecliptic) from South to North is called Fernal
Equinox and the point of intersection during Sun's motion from
the North to South is called Autumnal Equinox. The vernal
equinox Is taken as the commencement of the Sun's path or
Ecliptic and also the beginning of Celestial Equator, They get
wider and wider opto a quarter of the circle, and then come
nearer and nearer. Again they cross through the autumnal
equinox which is exactly at 180°. Now also they get widened
for a quarter of a circle and then come nearer and nearer and
again join the original point. Thus 360° are covered.

     It may be due to the fact that most of the astronomers and
administrators of countries and colonies arc in the Northern
hemisphere and also because, only on and from the time the Sun
touches the Vernal Equinox, those in the North Pole can have
the Sun rising after continuous dark period of b months for their
continuous day of 6 months. If the Autumnal Equinox is taken t
then the night and complete darkness will sel in and will run for
6 months for people .n the North Pole, People in the Sooth Pole
will have a day commencing from the time the Sun passes
Autumnal Equinox till it reaches Vernal Equinox, which is six
montbs for people in the other latitudes.

     To an observer at the North Pole, the Sun. nowadays, will
rise on 21st March und will trace circles in the heavens, slowly,
regularly and gradu^ lly increasing its altitude till 2 nd June with-
out setting in these mouths and reaching the greatest altitude of
23*27'. The Sun racves between 22nd June and 2jrd September
in circles as before but decreasing in altitude and on 23rd
September it begins to set and it describes the horizon and
gradually sinks below and disappears lor a period of six months.

     Erom 23rd September to l2st March, the Sun will be in the
southern hemisphere, i.e., to the South of Celestial Equator. It
reaches the maximum southern declination of 23" 27' on 22ad
December. This U the perpetual night to people in the North
Pole. For people in the South Pole, these six montbs are a
perpetual day.
                                 n

    The ineasuremeat is always made for astronomical purposes
along and across the Celestial Equator; this is called the Right
Ascension and Dedmatiofi respectively.

     But asltologers use another meihod of hsing up Planets by
measuring along the apparent Sun's unnual path which is called
Ecl'ptic. The sun appears to move strictly in Ibe Ecliptic. It is
more or less a circle; it cuts the Celestial Equator in two points,
diametrically opposite to each other. The Ecliptic is inclined by
2i0 IT to the Celestial Equator due to the inclination of the axis
of the earth. If one observes the movetnents of the Planets, the
Moon, Jupiter etc., one will find that they also move in their
individual orbits which arc slightly inclined to the Ecliptic.

     Anyhow no planet can proceed either north or south of the
ecliptic by more than b*. Hcnco, if a parallel line on either side
of the ecliptic is drawn at a distance of 7^°. then the ecliptic will
be in the middle whereas on either side there will be a bread
pathway. If both the North and the South of the ecliptic are
considered as a broad pathway with 1 i' declination, then this
pathway, lu which all planets can be located at any time, is
called the Zodiac.

     It may be defined as the apparent pathway of all the planets
belongine to Solar System extending to      N. and 7$" S. of the
ecliptic.
     Measurement Is always cototDcnced from Vernal Equinox,

     Therefore, for the use of astrologers to fix the positions of
tie Planets, the Ecliptic is chosen as the circle of reference. The
distance measured in one direction along the Ecliptic from the
Vernal Equinox Is called CeUitial Longitude and the distance
measured perpendicular to the Ecliptic is termed as the Celestial
Latitude.

     Though the tracks of the Planets are all found to lie very
nearly along the line, they will be only a few degrees North or
South of it, al the most IT' to 8a, The Celestial Latitude is
absolutely different from Declination except at the two equiaoo-
tial points. This measurement is convenient for astrological
purposes and is also necessary for predictions
                                14

     To abort, Cetestiat Latitude is the perpendicular distance
between a Planet and the Ecliptic (whatever be the declination of
he Ecliptic itself) whereas declination is the perpendicular dis-
tance counted from the Celestial Equator to the planet or star.
Celestial Longitude is measured along the Ecliptic from the
Vernal Equiuox whereas (he Right Ascension is meaiuted along
the Celestial Equator from the Vernal Equinox in one direction.
     If two objects are in equal declination either on the same
side of the Celestial Equator or on opposite side of it, they are
said to be Parallel to each other.


DIFFERENT KINDS OF TIME

Sidereal Time
     Time is measured in many ways, A sidereal day is the
interval between the first point of Aries (Mesba) appearing over-
head or crossing the meridian of a place and the very next
appearance of the first point of Aries overhead.
     Suppose you note one star over your bead, just crossing the
meridian of your place on any one night at a particular time,
shown by the clock you use which maintains correct time. The
next day also, observe when the same star crosses the meridian.
It will be found that It returns exactly after 21 hours 5$ minutes
and a few seconds. On the following day, again see wuen it
crosses the meridian. It will be crossing again at an interval of
23 hours 56 minutes and few seconds after the previous day's
timing I.e., the star crosses the meridiao again and again at an
Interval of 23 hours 56 minutes and a few seconds after the
previous day's timing. Why is It,' about 4 minutes less than
24 hours? Because this is the time taken by the earth to revolve
exactly once completing 360° ; actually the star Is fixed and the
meridian chosen for observation is constant. Hence, a sidereal
day It the time taken by the earth to make one full revolution
with reference to Aries 0* (Mesba) or with reference to any parti-
cular star. It is about 4 minutes less than 24 hours of our time
by the clock.
    If one were to note the transits of the first point of Arlea
over one's meridian and those of the Sun over the same meridian,
                                 15

it will be found that, in one year, the first point of Aries crosses
366 times and further passes about one quarter of the celestial
sphere, wbcreai the Sun crosses only 365 times and passes one
quarter of the celeslial sphere, This is because, during this
period, the Sun appears to make a journey along the ecliptic, i.e.,
the apparent path of the Sun.
     Suppose on March 21st, one observes the sky 15 minutes
prior to sun-rise. He finds a star, a little above the horizon, in
front of the Sun, rising just prior to the Sun in the Bast; 15
minutes later, the Sun rises.
     The next day, when it is obterved 15 minutes before sun-rise,
the star had risen 4 minutes earlier than the time of observation
and had come a little up in the horizon by i" whereas the Sun
rises at the same time i.e., 15 minutes after the time of observa-
tion, If the experiment is repeated on the third day at the same
time, as usual the sur is further above and the Sun rises only
after 15 minutes. If one continues to observe for 10 days, the
original star will be at 10* above in the horizon at the time of
observation. In the meanwhile, another star is found rising jusl
before sun-rise. A few days later, this star has come up, a third
star rises just before the Sun. In 3 months time, the original
star comes overhead when the Sun is about to rise, la 6 months,
the original star sets in the West when the Sun rises To the Bait.
From the end of the sixth month, for another 6 months, this star
will not be seen at all but actually it chases the Sun and conjoins
jt. To our pleasant surprise, at the end of one year after the
commencement of the observation, the original star again
appears at the time of observation whereas the Sun rises after 15
minutes as it happened a year ago.
     Thus, the stars, maintaining the relative positions among
themselves constantly move around like a train, whereas the Sun
appears to move from the Equinox towards one star, leaves it and
slowly oears another, passes it and approaches another and so
on, it tfuosits. Thus it passes from the Equinox, all the stars
on its path (the ecliptic) and finally reaches the same Equinoctial
point in exactly one year,
    If it is reflected calmly, one can understand that the earth
revolves about Itself exact once, in about 3 minutes and a few
                                16

seconds less (ban 24 hours. To revolve exactly once, it has to
 move 360' as (be niertdfan crossing a star or the Vernal Equinox
t wice successively means one full rotation of the earth.

     Due to earth's motion in space la Its orbit, it appears that
the Sun moves daily rearly 1° away from the V-Equinox In the
same direction of the aiol mo of the satth or in the opposite direc-
tion of the movement of the horizon. Therefore, the Bjendian
of a place, though it can cross the Equinox by revolving 360*,
has to move one mere degree a day to bring the Sun to the meri-
dian since the Sun has slipped along the ecliptic one degree with-
in that time. Hcocc a year consists of 365i solar days meaning
that (he Sun dunng the year appears to observers at any place to
describle 3b5T revolutions with respect to its meridian, whereas
during this time lone yean the Son makes one revolution with
respect to the first of point or Aries or the Vernal Equinox. So
the first point of Aries (Mesha) appears 366| times in a year.

      Suppose there is a train running round and round in an
exhibition. There are 3''>5 compartments for the train. The first
compartment is provided with a motor; the last compartment,
ic., the 365th is linked with the first, thus formtDg a complete
circle. A person takes his scat In the centre of the circular route
of (he train and looks at a post fixed on (he ground from where
 the train starts. Suppose an Inspector checks the rickets and just
 passes from one ccmipartment to the other, whenever the engine
just reaches the starting point, after making one round. What
 happens? If the engine has passed the place of departure 30
 times, the Inspector will be going to the 30th compartment ; 60
 tirnei means that the inspector will be in Ihc 60th compartment,
 180 times means 180(h compartincnt or nearly half, i,e,, the
 engine will bo near the post and be will be in the carriage diame-
 trically opposite to the post. So when the train completes 365
 revolutions, the inspector reaches 365th compartmeot and he has
 made only 3u4 complete rounds. When it makes j66tfa revolu-
 tion, both the first compartment of the trsin and the inspector
 will arrive logtiher, Therefoie the engine will pass 366 times
 whereas the inspector crosses only j6v times; in the same way,
 the movements of the stars and ♦bat of the Sun happen in the
 celestial sphere.
                                 17

      {leace 365i solar days are equivalent to 366^ sidereal days ;
i.e., the sidereal day is shorter than a solar day by 3 mts. 56 555
sees.

     Why we should take mean solar time and not apparent one,
may also be known. The question Is whether the Sun is a good
time keeper. If it were, then there is no necessity of other kinds
of time, Really, the Sun is not a good time keeper, because its
motion along the ecliptic for the year is irregular. Therefore,
apparent sokir days are of unequal duration. The days vary in
length from one place to another, and even in the same place
during different seasons, and it is tmpossible for a watch or a
clock to be regulated according 1o apparent time. Let us take
an example of irregul^nty of the apparent day ; it is 5i seconds
longer, i.e., the duration between ?2nd December and 2Jfd
 December is longer than an apparent day around the 3rd week of
September as measured by the standard time. Trie main reason
is that, the Sun's apparent annu d moiion along the ecliptic is not
Uniform but Irregular. The earth's orbit is also not a perfect
circle. It is eccentric. The earth is about 3 miUiou miles nearer
to (he Sun on July .nd than on trd January.

     What happens if it is nearer or farther away 7 When the
earth is relatively neirer the Sun, it go-'i, faster in its orbit due
to greater gtuvitation, whereas waen ihe eaxm jS farther away it
moves comparatively slower. When lb; e<r h aciually moves
faster, the Sun js scemidgly mcving i'uMcr tco in its niotioa; and
as the earth moves more slgwl/, so tirj Su t also appears to
move equally slowly. Hence the number of minutes of arc
covered by the Sun la a day in the e,is< wjfi motion along the
ecliptic is constaully varying, oat avciages a iittie less than I" a
day.

     This is aUo due to the luclinati an at t .e Bdiptio to the
Bquator. fbe Sun's iippntvat ..iiurac is n,d djuj the Celestial
Bqaator. It is along ihe EcSgj'ij whuii n inclrnad to the
Equator by 23V7 , Tirac is ever rne4-.u;cJ b,- tak ng the hour
angle which Is the ang'e measured fro n the Celestial Pole. It
has nothing to do with the Ecliptic. Hour angle is the roe isure
oieut formed by the meridians at t^e Cclestut Pole. Only when
                                 18

the celestial equator and the ecliptic are parallel and then alone,
I* of solar motion along the ecliptic means i* along the equator
also. This happens on two occasions in a year, i.e., at the time
of the summer or the winter solstice, when the Sun is at a place
where the equator and the Ecliptic are for the monaent parallel.
On other occasions, the Sun's movement of 1* along the Equator
Is not    along the Ecliptic. Anyhow, it is the apparent eastern
movement of the Sun as measured along the Equator that deter-
mines an apparent day.

     Thus it must be clear that the Sun is not a good time keeper-
So a fictitious body called the "Mean Sun" is invented. It is
assumed to have a perfectly uniform motion eastward along the
celestial equator and not the ecliptic and also to complete a
tcvolutioo just the same time that the real Suo takes for an
annual trip along the ecliptic. By so assuming, all the days of
mean time are precisely of the same length because of the uniform
movement of the mean sun along the equator.

     In civil life, Mean Solar Time is the basis of time. From
1925 the apparent day and the mean solar day commence at
midnight, when the sun will be transiting at lower transit. Prior
to I —1—1925 mean solar day commenced at midnight whereas
apparent solar day in astronomy started when the Sun was at the
upper transit, i.e., noon. Nowadays the astrologers* day is made
to correspond with the day of civil usage.

    Civi7 time is the specific use of mean time begmaiog the day
at midnight.

     Our clocks keep solar mean time, This is set up to the mean
Sun which Is explained above. The clack shows 0 hour when the
calender day commences. The clock is so set up that U registers
exactly 24 hours by the time the eartd moves about 361'', to catch
the Suu up which it appears to have moved by about l9 in that
one day.

     The sidereal time is the time which is used principally in the
aBtronotnicai observatory. Its uses are in connection with the
transit of the stars and in the setting up of the telescope for which
the sidereal time is directly read from a sidereal clock.
                                 lit

     Sidereal (ime is nearly hut not exactly star time. // is rernal
equinox time and It is a measure of the earth's rotation with
respect to the equinox which has a very very small retrograde
motion. A typical sidereal clock has on Its dial 24 hours and is
adjusted and rated to sidereal time, If you want to convert your
ordinary clock to sidereal clock, you make it run fast by about 3
minutes 55 909 seconds a day by meddling with the spring. This
can be achieved. The hands are set at 0 hour 0 minute 0 second,
when the Sun is exactly at 0* Aries overhead at Greenwich while
crossing the vernal equinox from its southern course to the
northern hemisphere. Every year the Sun takes this position by
about 21sl March. The sidereal dock shows 24 hours when the
earth has rotated once; but it registers 4 more minutes (roughlyj
when the ordinary clock shows 24 hours. In 2 months, the
sidereal time advances by 4 hours. In 6 months it gains 12 hours
and in one year it gains exactly 2a hours, i.e., one day.

     The sidereal time is the same as the Right Ascension being
measured along the celestial equator. In the same way, but using
hours and minutes and seconds Instead of degrees, minutes and
seconds. The two terms are easily inter-convertible. One day=-
360° i.e , 24 hours = B^-O0        I hour = 15 ; I minute = 15'
of angle. Hence if one Is known, the other can be calculated.

     If you have an ephetneris, on any particular day, according
the month of the year, the sidereal time at noon given in the first
column may be anythingjfrom 0 hours 0 minutes 0 seconds to 23
hours 59 minutes 59 seconds: for it will be evident that the
sidereal clock gains one whole day in a year.
     In this column, you note the sidereal time at noon at
Greenwich, ft is the right ascension of the raeridun at noon, I.e.,
the distance between the Sun and vernal equinox, [t will be seen
that the sidereal time at noon on March 21st is 0 hours 0 minute
when the Sun will be in the vernal equinox, and that it increases
by 2 hours every month. Sidereal time may be taken as the tune
taken by the Sun to come to the meridian after the rise 0' or
vernal equinox, i.e , M;sha 0" passes the meridian of the piace.
 According to Sayana System on 2lst March, both the Sun and
Aries, 0° pass the meridian at the same time ; after 2 months it
will take 4 hours for the Sun to come to the meridian after Aries
0* passes (t. After 5 months, Aries 0* passes and twelve hours
later the Sun passes Thus the intcrvjl, between the time when
Aries 0' passes over a meridiao and the time when the Sun passes
it. is the sidereal time which wilt be found against each day in
the Epheraeris.

     Standard Time: For each country, a Standard Time
Geographical meridian is chosen. Clocks are adjusted accord-
ingly, to keep uniform time throughout the country for conveni-
ence in matters pertaining fo Railways, Telegraphs, Phones,
Radio and astronomical calculations. In Great Britain, the
Standard time is Greenwich Mean time     It is observed over the
whole of the country instead of the true local time without
taking into consideration how for East or West of Greenwich
a place may be.


      From which date the Standard time ia adopted |>y
               varlona nattoai it fl*<n below

                                        Dath     Month     Year
    United States and Canada              11      )1       im
    Japan                                 12       7       IB 86
    Austria                                        y       1889
    Hungary                                        V       1889
    Germany                                        y       1890
    Prussia                                1       4       1B9.1
    Rumania                                       10       1891
    Servia                                 !      10       189 1
    Bulgaria                                      10       189i
    Italy                                         11       189J
    Denmark                                        l       1894
    Switzerland                                    6       1894
    Norway                                          1      1895
    Queensiand                                      1      1895
    Australia                              )       1       1895
    New South Waks                                 2       1895
    Vittcna                                        2       1895
    South Australia                                !       1895
    Manila Island                         ;1       5       1899
                             2i

                                      Date        MONtH    YEAR
   Philippine islands                   11          5       1899
   Alaska                               20          8       1900
   Spain                                  I         1       1901
   Balearic Islands                                 I       1901
   Atlantic Time                        15          6       1902
   New Brunswick                        15          6       1902
   Nova Scotia                          15          6       1902
   Cape Breton                                      6       1902
   Prince Edward's Island                15         6       1902
   Orange River Colony                              3       1903
   Scuth Africa                            1        3       1903
   Transvaal                              i         3       1903
   Rhodesia                               1         3       HO1
   Portuguese East Africa                  I        3        1903
   Cape Colony                            I          3      190.1
   INDIA                                   1         I       1906
   Peru                                  28          7      1908
    Republic of Chile                       1         1      1910
    Republic of France                   10          3       1911

          DifTertoce betwefn GrecDnitrh Mean Time
                    and the Standard Time
    The following table gives the difference between the Green-
wicb Mean Time and the Standard Time used in various parts of
the world.
     For placet in the East of Greenwich and the difference to
the Greenwich (ime to get standard time of a place. If the
locality Is in the West of Greenwich deduct the difference from
O.M T, to obtain the standard time of the place.
                                    Hours       MiNurrs   Seconds
    Algeria                             0          9       21
    ArgeDtlna                           4         16       48
    Australia Western                   8          0        0
    Australia Central                   9         30        0
    Australia Eastern                  10          0        0
    Austria Hungary                      1         3        0
    Belgium                             0          0        0
                      22

                           Hours   Minutes   Seconds
Bofaco                        8       0         0
Brazil                        2      t2       41
British Columbia              8       0         0
Canada Eastern                5       0         0
Canada Central                6       0         0
Chile                         4      42       46
China—Shanghai                8       5       43
China —Saigon                 7       6       49
Columbia                      4      56        54
Cuba                          5      29        26
Denmark                       1       0         0
Egypt                         2       0         0
England                       0       0         0
Fiji Islands                 11      53       44
France                        0       9       21
Germany                       1       0         0
Gibraltar                     0       0         0
Greece                         I     34        53
Holland                       0       0         Q
Hong Kong                     8       0         0
INDIA                          5     30         0
Ireland                       0      25       21
Italy                         1       0         0
Japan                         9       0         0
Java                          7       7        14
Korea                         9       0         0
Madagascar                    3      10         7
Malta                         I       0         0
Mexico                        6      36        2?
New Zealand                  U       30         0
Norway                        1       0         0
Nova Scotia                   4       0         0
Panama                        5      19        39
Peru                          5       9         3
Portugal                      0      36         5
Russia Pulkowa                2       1        19
Russia Irkutsk                6      57         5
Russia Vladlvostoir           3      47       31
                              23

                                      Hours   Minutes   Seco
    Servia                               I       0        0
    Singapore                            6      55       25
    South Africa                         2       0        0
    Spain                                0       0        0
    Sweden                               1       0        0
    Switzerland                          1       0         0
    Tunis                                0       9       21
    Turkey                               2       0         0
United States:
    From Manic to South Carotins         5       0        0
    Kakota to Texas         T
    Michigan to Florida     J            6       0        0
    Montana to Arizona                   7       0        0
    Pacific Coast States and Nevada      8       0        0
    Alaska Sitka                         y       0        0
    Hawaiian Islands
    Philippine Itlaods                   %       0        0
    Porto Rico                           4       0        0
    Panama Canal Zone                    5       0        0
    One has to refer to this table and calculate G.M.T. to erect
a horoscope.

     For fndia, the meridlaa of 82' 30' East of Greenwich wa#
arbitrarily chosen in 1906 and hence the Standard Time for India
is 3^ hours in advance of Greenwich Mean Time, At all place*
■ituated os this longitude of 82° 30' the Sun will be at noon at
the Zenith, In these places, the Suq will be in meridian nearly
51 hrs. early than at Greenwich situated West of Indie,
(nearlyvariations will occur a little, by difference in the
Longitudes of the places). People in Japan, and East Chin?
observe the Sun rising earlier than in India as they are to the
East of India. In Arabia, time Is later than m India, and still
later in Paris, London etc. In America which is situated far
West of Greenwich, the Sun rises much later than at Greenwich.
Local Mhb Time

      The earth moves round in an eclipse and revolves about
itself. Hence the time of Sunrise varies from place to place fn
                                24

different longitudes The carlb revolves 60* in one day. One
day is divided lato 24 hours, or 1,440 minutes. So to revolve 1*
it takes 4 minutes. Hence,'places in the same latitude about I*
West of any one place will gee (he Sun rising 4 minutes later
than at the eastern place. li'two places A and B arc IS* apart
and A Is east of B, B, wilt note the Sun just rising one hour after
sunrise at A. Hence the Local Mean time is one which can be
arrived at, after caiculatiLg the Luneitudc of the pUcc. ft Is
customary to calculate it. by taking Greenwich as the place of
reference and fmnr the longitude of the place. Conversion of
Standard time to L- cal Mean timt and calculation of the Sidereal
time at any particular raoroent are to be clearly understood by
the students of astrology.

CoDTcrsloa of the Standard Tim* la Local Mean Timo
     Geoerally. an aitrolocer is given the lime of birth of a native
In Standard Time, i.e., time by the clock ; or the astrologer may
have to make out a map for a particular moment, e.g., tha
(Dcmeot of query, the moment of any incident, the timt of
coronation rf executing a deed, registering i company, layiag the
foundation, registering or celebrating a niiirmge etc.        These
times are to be converted to Local Mean Time So (he standard
Time and the loogltude of the locality arc to be noted. From the
atlas, he abould find out the Longitude of the place if It is not
found in this book.
    Ex 1 : Say one is born at 12-15 P.M. i S.T, ijud after the
noon) at Madras on 1 — 11—1508
     The Indian Standard Time given is 12-15 P.M
     Longitude of Madras is ^"-ly i c,, 80^'' liast.
    Actually, the time at Madras in advance to Greenwich »
only tOixl min, or 121 mio. or 5 hrs. 2, min.
    But Indian Standard Time is always 5 hours JU minutes in
advance of G.M.T.
    Therefore  J7-15 P.M. Indian           Standard    Tin 0=12-15
minus 5-30=6-45 A.M. at Greenwich.
    Therefore when it is 12-15 P.M. at Madras according to
Indian SUndtird Time, the time at Greenwich is 6-45 A,M,
                                AS

    To finrf -be Local Mean Tune ut Mailras;
    AJd 80^x4 min. or 3'i mm. or 5 hours 21 mio, to the
Greenwich Mean Time. Trie time obtaiaed = 6-45+ 5-21 = 12-0^
P.M. L.M.T. Madras.
    Second Method:
    Madras is 80"-15' East of Greenwich In Latitude is 2^"
    Difference in time is 2| x 4 rain or 9 min.
     As Madras is West of the chosen meridian 82*-30', it is to be
deducted.
     So, when it ii      hours IS minutes P.M. t.S.T. It mean
         minus 0-9.= 12 hours 6 minutts P.M. L.M.T. at Madras.
      When the [odian Standard Time is said to be 12 hours
 is minutes which is the same ii.ne ihrooghout India, L M.T. of
each place will differ.
     If at 12-15 P.M. I >.T,, there were hirlhi at Catcima, Madias
and M.ingdlorc i.e.. there were 3 births at toe same momeut.
      Ex, 2: The Local Mean Time for the chili born at Calcutta
.s to be calculated us folfows; LoagitaJc of Calcutta 8ja-2 *.
Hence L.M,T. at Calcutta wilt always he $$.24/60 x4 mio., in
advance of Greenwich or -oT mm, 3t> see. Birtij at Calcutta^
 12-15 P.M Indian Standatd Time G-S.T.) Diffifencc between
I.S.T. and G.M.T. is always           nrs. So Greenwich Mean
Time = 12-15 P.M. minus 5-3t)=t>-45 A.M.
    L.M T, at Calcutta—6-4 :-l-5 5J-36 = 12-38 3 i P.M.
    A more simple method will be as follows :—
    What is the Longitude of Cikulia V
    88'-2 T.
     To which Longitude is ihe I.S. i, lixcd 'I
     It is fixed for S2o-30' East Long.
     Note the diffcfcnce htiween the longitude of the place and
the lungiludc to which i.S. T, is fixed.
     Calcutta is Ka<1-24'.
     LS.T. is Lxtd to 82"-3U'.
     ThceroFi Calcutta is 5I'-j4' fuui.tr hrst of -dP-50', Diffcr-
snce in Joca:. uuie^P.O'-i/'a x4 uno. ui 23 iHio. 36 ■ ec. /vdd itns
to thetln-.n'jfnUl C..L'utm. 1:°-. 5'+2J'-e         U*-J8' 36' F.V
     Ex. 3 :   Birtb at Mangalore.
     Longitude of Mangalore is 74*-53' East, Diffcrcacc la Longi-
tude. (Chosen for Indian Standard Time and Mangatorc Clly) =
SZ'-SO'- 74*-j3' = 70-37'. Difference between Local Mean Time
and Sidereal Time=7-37/60x4 mm.=30 mtn. 28 sec.
    So, If the birtb were to be at 12 hours 15 minutes P.M. I.S.T.
then the local Mean Time for Mangalore will be 12 hours 15
minutes minus 30 min. 28 sec.= U hours 44 mirt, 32 sec. A.M.
    Therefore Madras local Mean Time Is 12 hrs, 6' P.M.
    Calcutta Local Mean Time is 12 hrs, 18'-36' P.M.
    Mangalore Local Mean Time is U hrs. 44'-32* A.M.

      So far, the examples arc taken for East Longitude, i.e , East
of Greenwich. Now let ui take an example for West Longitude,
i.e.. West of Greenwich.

     A child is born in New York at 3 P.M. of the Stanoabo
Time adopted in that^country. It ts given that, in that countiy,
the Standard Time is 5 hrs, less than Greenwich Mean Time In
the United States, there arc 3 different Standard Times. For all
places between 6 7^' and 8.'^' Longitude West, the 75' Longitude
is t^ken. Hence for such places, 5 hours Is the difference between
G.M.T. and New York Standard Time.

     For places between 82f* and 9?£' the Longitude 90' ts taken
and hence in such areas, Standard Time chosen and followed
from 18-11-1883 is 6 hours behind G.M.T. Again, for places,
me Longitude of which fails between 97and 112^* the longitude
10io is chosen and the difference between G.M.T. and the Stand-
ard Tiiue there is 7 hours. For all other localities from the
Pacific Coast 112^° to West Coast 8 hours is chosen. All these
were fixed on 18—II—1883.

      Tor a chiid born in New York, we should note the Longitude
of New york. It is 74<>-i' West. What is the difference between
the G.M. F. and tne Slaud^rd rime adopted here 7 Since New
York is between o7|* and 8 i", the difference is 5 hours. Thai
Is, if the G.M. T. is U noon, ttie Standard Time m New York wdl
show only 7 A.M.
     The example taken abene shows that the birth was at 3 P.M.
at New York, i.e., by the Standard Time at New York. There-
fore 5 hours more or k P.M. will be the Time at Greenwich,
    Convert Standard Time to G.M.T.
     3 P.M. New York Standard Time=S P M. G M.T. |p 1'
Longitude West of Grecawich is New York, Hence, difference
in tlmc='74 !/60x4 min. = 4 hrs. 55 min. 4 sees.
     Hence, deduct 4 hrs. Strain. 4 sec. from 8 P.M. B hours
minus 4 hoi rs, 56 minutes 4 seconds=G hours 3 rats. 56 sees.
P M. will bo the L.M.T. at New York. Otherwise, find the
difference between the Longitude chosen and Longitude of New
York.
    Longitude chosen is 75",    Longitude of New York is 74* I'.
    Difference in time 59/60x4 min =^3 min. 56 sec.
    New York is East of 75". Hence, add 3 mins. 56 sec. to the
Standard Time noted as 3 P.M.
    Hence L.M.T. at New York is 3 hrs, 3 min. 56 sec.
     Thus the Local mean Time is necessary to fix the meridian,
the ascemianl and the cusps of all the houses, when one wants to
erect a map for a particular moment.
     When one wants to fis the position of planets L.M.T. is not
necessary. To fix exactly the lagna or ascendant, the meridian
or the 10th cusp, the Locai Mean Time ts needed, so that sidereal
time at the moment for that locality can be caiculatcd.

How to cidcnlate sidereal time for any time at any Place of Birth
on Earth
     1.   Local Mean Time is separately noted first.
     2. Next take the ephemeris of that year of birth. Turn
over that page, in which the sidereal times and the position as
well as the movements of the planets are given for the month of
birth Every month is allotte d 2 pages. It must be remembered
that all figures noted down there, are worked out for 12 noon
Greenwich time (or the moment of birth of the next day tn the
International Date Line).
                                2S

     Thiak. a while. If ilacreal lime U gtveo for 12 nooo at
Grecowicb for each day and if it is observed that, every day the
sidereal time increases by about 4mia, is it nut necessary to give
corrections .1) for the time that bad elapsed between 12 noon and
the time for which a map is to be erected and (2) for the differ-
ence m Longitude between Greenwich and the place of
occurrence ?

     Suppose a child is bornat 12 noon at Greenwich on 1-11-1908.
 Then the sidereal time on that day, 1-11-1908 at Greenwich
exactly represents the sidereal lime at the time of birth of the
child. If a child is oorn exactly at 12 noon on 2-11-1908, then
the sidereal time will be around 4 minutes greater than on the
previous day l-l 1-l^OS. If another child is born on 3-11-190S at
12 noon, the sideieat time that day is 4 mmates greater than on
the 2ad and o irnns, greater than on the first noon.
     r bete tore for every passing 24 hrs.     the sidereal lime
increases by 4 ininuies
    If a child is born at 2 P.M. at Greenwich, then the sidereal
time will be the sidereal tune given for ttjtt noon plus the two
hours wmch is (he difference between noon and the birth time
L.M. 1. and also the increase in the sidereal time for the lapse of
2 hours.
                 2 hrs,    „          2 hrs.
    i.e., 4 mini x        4 mios, x -ttt—
                 a day                24 hrs.
*-4xc0secs. X 2/24=10 sees, x 2 = 20 sees.
     htffcrcal lime increases by 4 miuutes for every 24 hours; 4
minutes is equal to 240 seconds, fhcrcfcrc in 24 hours, sidereal
tune geit increased by 240 seconds ; i.e., for every hour, sidereal
time increases by 10 seconds; i.c, lor every six minntcs the
sidereal ume is more by i second, fherctuio for 2 Lours, 2x id
or 20 seconds are to be added. J'bcn add tue inter val correction
for the interval between previous uooti nod bum time L.M.i.
and toe sidereal lime given for noou p.us 2 hrs. 20 secondi
gives the sidereal time at the time ot bulb whi^h is said to be
2 P.M. at Giecnwicn
    Because when tbe tailh revolves once, a day or 24 boun past
cm; the sidcieul time slowly, r-^ylaiiy, uniformly and stead iky
                                 29

iccreases hour after hour and in 24 hours, there i« an Increase of
ahout 4 min, or 240 seconds. Therefore, for every hour that had
elapsed after 12 noon, a coirectioD is to he made at 10 seconds.
Thai is. for every 24 hours, 4 minutes is to be added to the Local
Mean Time.

     Suppose a child was born at 12-15 p.m. at Madras on
 1-11-1908, Note the L.M. T. It is 12-6 p.m. L.M.T, Note the
sidereal time at 12 noon in the ephctneris against the date. Take
1908 year Epberaerls. You turn over the page where all parti-
culars are printed for the month of November. Then you note
that which is given against the date of birth. Kcre it is 1st. So
note dowalhe sidereal time given against noon on the 1st Novem-
ber, llCI8    This Is to be added to the interval between the
previous noon and the time of birth in L.M.T. and also the
correction for the interval at the rate of 10 seconds for every bonr.
Then the sidereal time is calculated as if the birth were in
Greenwich.

    Again think for a moment. The sidereal time is given for
Greenwich Noon. But noon in Madras had already come, i.e.,
5 hours 21 minutes before Greenwich, Fach locality has its own
noun, earlier by 4 minutes than the locality which is West of it
by 1'.

     He«c* Madras eiperiences noon > hours 21 minutes earlier,
because It is 80' 25' East of Greenwich Sidereal rime gets
increased by 4 minutes for every revolution of the earth i.e., 360*.
In ether words, for every revolution of 360®.       4 minutes of
sidereal time is added. In the ephemeris, the sidereal time is
worked out for Greenwich noon. The sidereal time for dilferent
longitudes has to be worked out. If the places are East of
Greenwich, then the sidereal time at noon for that locality will be
less than that given for Greenwich noon. If an ephemeris is
worked out, taking International Date Line which is 180*£ and
where the day has its birth as the place of the reference, the
sidereal time given for that place will ever be 2 min. less than
what wilt be found in Greenwich ephemeris.

     The sidereal time at nqoo at Greenwich and the sidereal timo
at noun at a place near Andamans VO® East of Greenwich will i»
                                30

always 1 minute less than in Greenwich, Again for New Orleans
which is West of Greenwich, the noon is to come after Greenwich ;
It will come after the Sun has left Gieeawich and moved 90°.
That Is, it has to make | of a circle for one revolution 90* West,
ope minute will be the Increase and this one minute is to be added.
    Thus the sidereal time i* to be worked out for each longitude.
    From the Standard time, convert the time to Local Mean
Time and note it.
     1. Note the Sidereal Time given for the previous noon (i.e.,
for the birth between 12 noon and 12 p.m. midnight, note the
sidereal time given for the same dale and for the births between
12 p.m. and onwards till next day 11 hours 59 minutes 59 seconds,
find the sidereal time given for noon of the previous date.
     2. Ascertain whether the birth was in the East Longitude or
the West Longitude. If It is East Longitude, deduct the number
of seconds that will result by multiplying the longitude of the
place by 2 and dividing the product by 3. (because 4 rains =240
sees, which is the correction to be made for 360*). If It is East
Longitude, multiply the longitude by 2/3 and the product is the
number of seconds to be deducted. This is the correction for
the East Longitude. Now sidereal time at noon for the place of
birth It found out.
     3. Add, to the sidereal time, the interval between the
previous noon and the time of birth in L.M.T. (The sidereal
time given in the ephcmerls will be between 0 hour. 0 mlo. Osec.
to 23 hours 59 mins. 59 sees).
     4. Add to this sum, the correction for the interval between
the previous noon and the time of birth at the rate of 10 seconds
for every hour, i e,, one second for every 6 minutes
     The figure so obtained by adding (1) the interval and (2)
correction for the interval to (3) the sidereal time at noon as It
found in the ephcmerls worked out to Greenwicb noon and then
(4) cither deducting or adding the correction for the Longitude
depending on the East or West of Greenwich respectively, is the
sidereal time for the moment of birth of a native whose time of
birth is given in standard time and place of birth is also known.
(Without knowing th; place of birth, oawr Start working.)
                                31

THE EPHEMERfS
    The ben available and the most popular ephemeris is
'Raphael's ^stroooinical Ephemeris'for every year commencing
from tst January and endinj; on 31st December.

     Various data regarding the date,, the day, the sidereal time at
noon at Greenwich, Sun'? Longitude and declination, Moon's
Longitude, Latitude and Declination and midnight position of
Moon are given on one page On the adjacent page, Longitude
of Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury
will be found. These particulars are published in the lower
half of each page. The data in the uoper half of these pages
may be taken for consideration later.

    Data for the month of January are given on pages 2&3 ; for
February on pages 4&5 ; for March on pages 6&7 and so on;

    In the first column in pages 2, 4. 6, b and 10 etc., the date of
the month is given in order. To guide ore properly und to avoid
committing any mistake, while referring along one !tne, for every
5 dates, a rule is drawn from the bcftiunina of the left page to the
end of the right one.

     In the second colmno, D/W will be seen It means the day
of the week. For Sunday, a flowery capital'S* is used, capital's'
For Saturday. 'TtT for Thursday, 'TV for Tuesday 'M' for
Monday. 'W* for Wednesday and 'F' for Friday, are the abbre-
viations used.
    The third column is allotted to the Sidereal time, 'FT shows
'Hours' 'M' represents minutes and 'S' indicates seconds.
    In the fourth column, a black thick and dark dot in the
centre of a circle is seen. It is the symbol of Sun. 'Long' stands
for Longitude. Undsraeath the Longitude of Sun is given its
position in degrees. Next you will noie the symoo! of the sign
in which Sun is on that day, Mmutes and seconds follow the
symbol of the sign occupied by Sun.
    The next column is allotted to the declination of Sun. This
shows bow far Sun is In the North or Scutn of C lesiial Equator.
On or around June 22ad1 Sun will be in 23* 27' North ; op or
                               32

■round September 22Dd, Sun's declination is 0* ; I.e., Sun is
exactly In tfte Celestial Equator; I e., Sun passes the aututtinal
equinox. Giaduiiily, Suu'a declination increases it will be
found In the South of the Celestial Equator. On or around 22fid
December, the declination of Suu will be 23* 27' South. Sun
takes a northern course and around March 21st, the declination
of Suu is 0*, It indicates that Sun on that day passes theVeroal
Equinox, So, if one simply follows this column, day after day,
and month after month, one can understand the declination of
Sun.

     There is no latitude for Sun. Why 7 Th^ Sun's apparent
path is the ecliptic. The latitude is the distance measured from
the ecliptic perpendicularly to the planet. As Sun moves
■long the ecliptic and the measurcmeot is to be taken only
from the ecliptic, there is no latitude at all for Sun. It mav
be said that Latitude of Sun is ever Zero, But. all other
planets have their own orbits. They arc not parallel to (he
Sun'e path—the ecliptic, But they arc Inclined to it. So, each
of them crosses the ecliptic in two dlffereut points.

     If one goes through the ephctncris, one can observe that
the planets have different latitudes and declinations.

    The sixth column given the longitude of Moon. The seventh
■hows its latitude, whereas the 8th is the declination of Moo*.

    Since Moon moves very fast and there is variation In Its
motion every day, the 9th and the 10th columns in the same
page show the Moon's longitude and latitude at midnight 0
hours. Thus for Moon alone, its position for every 12 hours
can be had from the epbemerls.

    In the adjacent page, date of month is given and only on Sun-
days, Instead of giving the dates, the letter 'S' wilt be seen
which, we wilt realise to be useful.

     The longitudes of planets are given in a particular order.
The planet which moves very very slowly is Neptune. So
its longitude is given ffrst. No doubt Uranus also moves
slowly, yet faster than Neptune and it it between Neptune and
Sun, So longitude of Uranus is giv<*D next to that of Neptune
                               3|

The fourth column is foe Saturn. It is nearer to Sun than
Uranus Foltowiog the same principle longitudes of Jupiter,
Mars, Venus and Mercury are given la the ephemerls in the
order of their distances from Sun,
     Next refer to the upper half of the page. On the right
side, i.e. pages 3, 5, 7, 9, and so on, the 8th column gives the
position of Moon's node, which Hindus call as Rahu. As the
position of (Cetbu {Descending node) is always exactly 18° away
from Rabu, it is not given separately.

    Thus, the date, tiie day, the sidereal time at noon at Green-
wich, the longitudes of all pi inets Cin be had from the
epheraeris.

Huw to calculate the sidereal time for the time of brlth of a
native
    Examples ; —
     The sidereal time at noon is given la Raphael's Astronomi-
cal Ephemeris for every noon at Greenwich for the whole year.
On March 21, it will be 0 hour 0 minute when the Sun will be
found exactly iu the vernal equinox, From 21 March, every
month, the sidcrexl time at noon Increases by two hours. So,
around 21st April, the sidereal time at noon, at Greenwich, will
he two hours: around 2tsl May it will be 4 hours at 12 noon,
around 21st June, it will be 6 hours at noon and so on. Thus la
 12 months, the sidereal time increases by 24 hours at 12 noon,
    if one were to refer the sidereal tune at noon on the day of
the birth of a child, than one is to obtain the ephemeris of the
year of the brilb of the child. All particulars about the day.
the date, the sidereal time at noon at Greenwich, position of all
planets etc, are given in the ephemcm in two adjacent page*.
         For January refer to pages ^  3
         For February               4   5
         For March               ,, 6 & 7 and so on.
         And for December        „ 2t & 25
 in the Raphael's Astronomical Ephemeris. So, turn over to the
 page in which these particulars are given for the month of the
                                }4

b-ritb of a chtid. Underline ibe date and day of birtb of the
native before proceeding to calculate tbe sidereal time for the
momeut of birtb of a child.
    Suppose three children are horn at Agra, Allahabad and
Ahtnedahad respectively. One is born at Agra at 6-^0 P M I.S.T.;
the other at 300 A.M l.S.T. at Allahabad, and another at
12-5 P.M. l.S.T, at Ahmedaoad, All these births are on 15lh
May 1963.
     It means on 15ih May, Wednesday evening, at 6-30 P.M.
[.S T. a child is born at Agra ; the other is born on Tuesday night
and before sunrise on Wedncsd t'v, three and a half hours after
mldDlsht. I.e., tnree and a half hours after the comrnsocement of
the calcnda'- dav JMh May 1963. Another birth was only 5
minules ul'ti Wciincsday noon,
    First, wn.d is it that is (o be Worked out ?
    ll is the Local Mean Time of ckIi brith. So, note the
Longitude of each pi;icc of birth. Ituference may be made to the
Geographic;;! Atlas for pieces not found in this book.
    Longitude of Agra is                            78° OV E.
    Longitude ol Allahabad is                       Si0 54' E.
    I ongiturfe of Ahrnedaoad ts              72° 38' B.
    1. Titne of birth at Agra-=6-30 P.M.I.ST. on 15—5—63.
    Dilferende between l.S.T. and Greenwich Mean Time is
5 hours >0 nhnules.
    Therefore 6-30 P.M.I.ST. means 6-30—5-30= IP M.G.M.T.
    Longitude of Agra=7b0 5'
For every degree East of Greenwich, add 4 mtnutes,
     Ihertforc for 78" 5'add 78* 5/otlx4 minutes=312 minutes
20 sees. = 5 hours 12 minutes 20 sees.
     Add this to the G.M.T. ottaincd.
     0-30 P.M. l.b T. = 1 P.M. G.M.T.
    Adding 5 hours 12 minutes 20 seconds to 1 P.M. G.M.T..
we get LMi=c-12-iO. P.M. on 15-5-63,
     2.   Binn time at Allahubcid—3-JO A.M. l.S.T. on 15-5-h,).
     To get Greenwich time, deduct 5 hours 30 minutes.
                               p

    Then Greenwich meao tiine=10 P.M. G.M.T. on
    LongKudc of Allahabad is 81' W E
    For every degree East add A cniniifes.
     Therefore for 81° 54' add 5 hours 27 minutes 36 seconds
So, to 10 P.M. G.M.T on 4-5 63 adding the 5 hrs, 27 minutes
36 seconds, wc get 3 hrs. 27' 6' A.M. L.M.T, on 15-5-63 at
Allahabad.
    Therefore L.M.T. = 3 hrs. 2736* A.M. on 15-5-63.
     (T/kKB TUB SIDFREAL TiMC AT NOON GIVEN FOR THfc SAME Oa rn
IF THE TIME OF EUR i H IN L M.T, IS IN P M, By r IF THE Ti ME OF
BIRTH IN L M.T. IS IN A.M., TAKE THl SlomtAL TIME AT NOON
ON TBU PREVIOUS DATE,]
    (3)   Birth time at Abmedabud= 12-5 P.M. on 15-5-63.
    Deducting 5 hours 30 minutes (which is the difFerence
between G.M.T. and 1 S.T.) the time G.M.T. arrived at is
    12 hrs. 5'—^ hrs; 30'=.6-35 A.M. on 15-5-63.
    Longitude of Ahmedabad^TZ1 38' E,
     Adding 4 minutes for each degree ie,. 4 hours 50 minutes
32 second* for 12* 38' E„ the time is 6 hrs.    hrs. 50'3-'.
    Therefore L.M,T. = ll firs, 35' 32' A.M. on 15-5-63,
     j. To find the sidereal time for the birth at b-'O P M
I.S.T. on 15-5-53 at Agra 78" 5' E.=6.12-20 P.M. L M.T,
    Take the ephctneris for the year I%3.
    Turn over to page 10.
    Underline the date I5th, agamsl which is written 'W mean-
ing Wednesday
    Note the third column. The sidereal time at noon at Green-
wich is given.
    Sidereal time at noon at Greenwich on 15-^-63 = 3 hours
23 minutes 5y seconds.
    Work out ihe sidereal tune at uoou at Agra l6ay E.
     For each degree East, deduct 2/3 seconds from the sidereal
time at noon at GieiiM-icb,
                                 36

    Therefore for 78'' 5' E. deduct 78.5/60x2/3 secoads = 52 sev.
roughly.
     Deducting 51 seconds from the sidereal n'me at noon at
Greenwich on 15-5-63, we get 3 hrs. 2^' 59'—52' or 3 brs. 29'?*.
This is the sidereal time at Agra on 15-5-63,
    So,
                                                Hrs. Min. Sec.
    Sidereal time at noon at Greenwich on 15-5-6J = 3—29~S^
    Sidereal time at noon at Agra on 15-^-1963      = 3—29—07
    Interval between previous noon and
      birth time L.M.T-                             = b—12—-20
    Correction for the interval at
      lO seconds per hour                           = 0— 1—02

    Add all these three.   The total                .— y^d2—^9

    Therefore the sidereal time at the time nf birth i.e., 6-30
P.M. I S.r. which is 5 hrs. !2' 20' P.M. L.M.T, at Agra on
15-5-1963 Is 9 hrs. 42' 29'.
    (2) Birth at 3-30 A.M. 1 S.T. = 3—27—36 A.M. L.M.T. on
15-5-65.
    What Is the sidereal time?
    Take the sidereal time at previous noon at Greenwich.
    1 be previous noon was the nocn on 14-5-63
     Therefore refer la the ephcitieris to the sidereal time given
for noon at Greenwich on U-5-65.
    Sidcieal lime on 14-5-63 at 12 njon at Greenwich Is 3 hours
26 minutes 2 seconds.
     Find the sidereal time on 14-5-63 at 12 noon at Allahabad
81* 54' E by deducting 2/3 tecond for every degree East
Longitude.
    81 9/10x2/3 sec. =- 819/10x2/3 sec, or 55 sects.
    Therefore the sidereal time at neon on 14—5--63 at 81'54'F
                               37

                                             Hrs.   M in.    Sec.
    = 3 hfs, 2ti min. 2-tec.—55 see. =        3      25         7
    Add Interval betsveen 14-5-63 noon
     and birth time L.M.T.                   15      '7        36
    \dd correction for the interval of
      15 hours 7.7 minutes 36 seconds
      at 10 seconds per hour                  0       2        35

                              The total Is    18     55         18

    Therefore the sidereal time at 3-30 A M. TS.T. oo 15-5-63
at Allahabad 81' 54' E. IS hrs. 55' 18*.

    u)   Birth at 12-5 P.M. T.S.T, = II hrs. 25' 32* A.M.

     L.M T. on 15-5-63 at 11' 38' E (Ahmedabad). Since the
L.M T. is 11 hrs 25' 32' A.M. on 15-^-61, take the sidereal time
at previous noon on 14-5-63 which is 3 hours 26 minutes 2 seconds.
     This sidereal time is giveo for Greenwich;

    So the sidereal time at Ahmedabad which is 72* 38' E. is
      3 hrs 26' 2* minus                Hrs.   Siin.    Sec,
      72 38/60 x 2/3 sees, or 48 Sees =  3      25        14
    Add the interval between previous
      noon and birth time in L.M.             23     25         32
     And also correction for the interval
       of 23 hrs. 25 mitt. 32 see. at 10
      second per hour                          0      3         54

                                    Total == 26        54       40


     An the total is above 24 hours, the esccss is 26 hrs. q4' 40*
minus 24 hrs or 2 hrs. 54' 40*. Therefore, the sidereal lime for
birth at 12-5 P.M. I S.T. on 15-5-63 at Ahmedabad 72* 38' E. is
2 hours 54 minutes 40 seconds. When one wants to work out,
one need no! write ail these. It is enough if the following U
worked out:
     Birth at U-5 P.M. LS.T. - U-n-52 AM. L.M-T. on
15-5-63 at 72*, 38' E.
                               3S

                                           Hrs.     Min.     See.
    Sidereal time at noon on 14-5-63        3       26          2
    Deduction for 72. 38 at 2/3 sec,
     for one degree                          0         0       4S

                                             3        25       14
    Add interval between previous noon
     and birth time in L.M.T.               23        23       32
    Add correction for interval              0         3       54

                                    Total = 26        54       40

    Therefore the sidereal time on 15-5-6J at 12-5 P.M. at 72*38'
                                             E. is 26 hrs. 54' 40'
    Deduct 24 hours.
    Sidereal time at 12-5 P.M. I.S.T. on 15-5-63
                                         « 2 hrs. 54 nnu. 40 sec.

     Let us take the examples of two births In Western Longitude.
One birth U supposed to be at 9 P.M. at Boston 71' 2' West and
the other at 7 A.M. at San Francisco 122" 25' West on 15-5-63.
The Standard time in use at Boston is 5 hours less than Green-
wich mean time.
    The Standard time at San Francisco is S hours less than
Greenwich mean time.
    If it is 12 noon Standard time at Boston, it will be 5 P.M. at
Greenwich.
    If if is 12 noon Standard time at San Francisco, It will be
8 P.M. at Greenwich.
    4.   At Boston 71° 2' West, birth was at 9 P.M.
    Difference is 5 hours.
    Hence the time at Greenwich will be 2 A.M. on 16-5*61
Boston is 71° 2' West,
    For every one degree deduct 4 minutes for West longitude.
Hence deduct 71-2/60x4 min. or 4 hours 44 minutes 8 seconds
from Grs-iwich time.
                                  ?9

    Hence 1 A.M. on 16-5-63 Is 11 Sam. minuj 4 firs. 44' 8' = 9
hn, 15' 52* P.M. L M T. on 15-5-63.
                                                 Hrs.   Min<   Sec.
    sidereal time at previous noon, i.e.,
       on 15-5-63                                  3     29      59
    To get sidereal titne at Boston at noon,
      add 2/3 x 71-2^60 sec.            +          0      0      47
    Add Interval between previous noon
     and birth time L.M.T,                         9     15      57
    Correction for iotervai at 10 sees,
     per hour                           -f         0      1      33
    Therefore sidereal time at 9 P.M. on
      15-5-63 at 71VW is                          12     48      II

                    — 12 hours 48 mla. 11 sec,

    5.   Birth at San Francisco 7 A.M. Standard time
    Difference between Greenwich time and Standard time Is
8 hours. Therefore 7 A.M. on 15-5-63 at San Francisco=3 P.M.
on 15-5-63 at Greenwich.
    Longitude of San Francisco is 122*25' West.
    Hence deduct 122—25/60 x 4 min               Hrs,   Mtn    Sec.
     or 489 min 40 sees, from
     3 P.M. = 6 brs. SO* 20' A.M.
     L.M.T. at San Francisco
    Sidereal time at 12 noon at
      Greenwich on 14-5-63                         3     76       2
    Sidereal time at Ji noon at San
    Francisco (and 122—25/60x2/3)            =     0      1     22
    Add the interval between previous
     noon and birth time L.M.T,                   18     50     20
   Add correction for interval at 10
    sees, per hour                                 0      3       8
    Therefore sidereal lime at 7 P.M.
      Standard time fit San Frandsco            ——
      on                                     -= 22      20      52
SIGNS AND HOUSES

     tso it is ntccsf-ury ic know what a sign is and what a house
rorsns,

      Thousands of stars are visible when night gathers and they
are scattered at random over the sky Only a few appear in
certain patteras, (f otic observes the pathway of the moon, one
will notice thjt it does not embr tee all the stars in the heavens*
but takes a course which is in the neighbourhood of the celestial
equator. Observations made to fix the apparent pathway of the
Sun both in the early morning hours and immediately after sun-
set confirm that its route is also very close to the celestial
equator and neither Sun nor Moon moves far away from it ,
Never do they pass near the South Pole or the North Pole, The
Sun's path crosses the celestial equator in two points and the Sun
will be away frora it 3 27' at the most. The Moon's orbit is a
tittle inclined to the Sun's path, viz the ecliptic The other planets
also have their individual orbits and all of them are found with-
in t degrees on cither side of the Ecliptic. This belt of the
heavens, which is u circle of space surrounding the Burth, is
called the Zodiac.

     The Sun appeals to rise 3^5 titnes a year. But 3oO is the
L.C.M, ^Least Common Multiple) of Numbers 1 to 10 except 7.
Hen ce it appears that the circular route is said to cover j6U
degrees, and the mathematicians have also taken 360* for a
circle.

     The Sun and the New Moon conjoin twelve times before the
Sun completes one revolution. So also in the same one- year
period there are 13 Full Moons.

     Probably this fnay be the reason to divide the zodiac into 12
equal parts. Hence each part is defined to contain 3tl degre?s
of space called the signs of the /odiac. Thus the 12 signs, e"ch
                                 41

fTieasuring exactly 30 degre.es, constitute the circle of the Zodiac
which is 360°
     These twelve signs commence from the vernal equniox and
they are called, Aries, Taurus etc. to Pisces. For convenience the
various names and symbols of the signs and the-planets are given
below.

                          SYMBOLS
ffS ARIES         MESHA          SUN        RAVI      5URYA

K1 TAURUS        RISHABA      |gj] MOON     CHANDRA MATHI
                              Jjj MARS      SEVVAI    MANGAL
E3 GEMINI        MITHUNA
                              ^ MERCURY BUDHA
0 CANCER         KAOAKAM
                              g| JUPITER    GURU      BRAHASPATHI
E LEO            SIMHA
                              |p| VENUS     SUKRA    Ibrigu
El VIRGO         KANNI
                              g] SATURN     SAN I     MANDHAN
^ LIBRA          THULAM
                              ^RAHU         CAPUT     ASC. NODE
EH SCORPIO      VRICHIKAM HI] KETHU        CAUDA      DES.NODE
C3 SAGITTARIUS; OHANUS    0 URANUS
   CAPRICORN MAKARA           NEPTUNE
     AQUARIUS    | KUMBHAMI   El PLUTO
     PISCES      MEENA        S3 FORTUNA

     The earth revolves on its axis once in 4 hours. During the
period the twelve signs pass over any given spot on the earth,
once succeeding the other in the same order. Each sign takes
nearly two hours to transit the eastern part of the horizon where
the Sun appears to rise in the morning. The time taken by each
sign varies. Though a few transit within a period of two hours,
some signs take more than two hours and the total time taken is
only 24 hours. This atso varies widely, depending upon the latitude
of the place of birth.
    For example, Aries takes nearly 112 minutes and Gemini 129
minutes for people in the Equator, whereas Aries takes 80 minutes
and Gemini 118 minutes for people in the latitude 34u North..
                                 42

      As the Zodiac is ever Tttmng and bifth can happen at any
 moment, the part of the Zodiac that rises in the East will be
 regularly changing at the rate of rovighly 1 degree for every four
 minutes. Therefore, to had out which part of the Zodiac or
 which part of a particular sign, is rising in the East at the time
 of birth one has to calculate. It is only to asceftaio Ibis exact
 position and to have some more data, sidereal tune at the time of
 birth of the child is worked out. Now it is necessary to know
 bow to fix the ascendant, I e,, the part of the sign that is rising
 in the East,

     With a view to read the results of the horoscope our sages
have also advocated that the circle commencing from the
ascendant is to he divided into 12 parts. These divisions arc
called Houses The rising position iti (he Zodiac is called the
Ascendant. Th^ meridian of the place and the setting position
of the zodiac, otherwise Called Dcsceodaot, are taken for
calculation, The ciuadrants formed between the nieridiao and
the horizon arc trisected, these from the visible six houses
above the earth. The other six houses and diametrically
oitposlte to each of these six houses. Thus there arc six houses
below the earth.

     There arj various methods of House division. The Hindus
follow the method recotumended by Sripatipadhdhati. It is
popular. In other countries, eight methods arc followedjand the
prtneiptes ia> ol/ed in each will be very briefly mentioned here,
     ^aj Ptolemy's modus equalis or equal method. The division
of the houses commences from the degree that rises in the East-
Thirty degrees are added successively and the mendiaa obtained
will not coincide with the Zemth. U is a rough method and is
given up.

     (b) Porphry suggested a method where .the meridian and
the ascendant are decided and the quadrants are equally divided
into three equal parts The quadrant formed by tbc asceodani
and Nadir itne cusp of the fourth bouse) ic divided into three
equal parts. Thus, six hgu^s are obtained and tbc other six
houses, the diarnslneatly opposite points are taken. Tins is also
not used nowadays.
                               43

     (c) Morioua iotroducerl a method by trisecting the
quadrant of the equator by circles passing through the poles of
the ecliptic which has not received support from the present-day
authors,
     (d) An Atittralianastrologer named Zaricl advocated equal
division method dividing the equator into 12 equal segments.
The division commcaces from the meridian of the place. This is
also not popular.
     (e) The method of Alcabitius: He determines the Ascen-
ant la the usual manner. He determines the sidereal time when
this degree of the ascendant will be m the meredidn.          The
difference between this and the sidereal time at birth is divided
by three and that position which will culminate for the sidereal
time thus arrived at, is taken as the cusp of houses It and 12.
Similarly be completes the circle.
    (f) Campaaus follows a met nod by which he finds the cusps
of houses which are the degrees of the Ecliptic cut by the Prime
Vertical.
    tg) The method In common use is that Followed by PJacidus,
generally known as "Semi Arc Syitem",

     (h) Regiomontanus advocates modus rationally which is a
rational one.

    So, there arc many meihods to work out the various bouses,
but to the astrologer, it is a tedious Job,

    To save the trouble as well as the time, and to avoid
mistakes, it Is suggested that the book "Table of Housts "
published by "RAHHAtL" is the best and that u may be used vilh
advanUgo.

Table of Houses

     Every degree of the mendiao io places in the Northern
Hemisphere is taken    lhal is, he his calculated the position of
the various houses to a locality by taking rrguEriy one degree
alter another from Aries 0 degree to Pisces aO* when it
passes the metitliaa. Far Utmides between 2" 6l 60dN,, this table
                                44

Is useful. To each latitude of the place, the sidereal time U
furnished fn the first column. Then the sign and the number of
degrees are given for houses 10, M, 12 Ascendant 2 and i. These
are the exact points where the houses begin. It is called the
"Cusps" of houses. The space in between the adjacent cusps is
the extension of (he house. By adding lisO degrees to the cusps
10, 11, 12, 1, 2 & 3 one can easily arrive at the position of the
cusps of the 4th, Sib, 6th, 7tb 8tb and the 9;h bouses respectively,
Thus, all the houses can be recorded with ease and without any
error.
    The positions ot these houses are given according to Sayana
System.

Signs and Houses

     Signs are twelve In number.     They always commence at
Aries 0" which is the moving verrml equinox and each sign is ever
exactly 30*, whether a person is in quator or at any latitude in
(he northern or southern hemisphere.
     But Houses begm from that point of the Zodiac that just
rises in the East at the required time. Each house is different in
longitude. Some houses will be greater than 30° and some less
than 30°, but the longitudes of all the houses put together will be
exactly 360°
     Examplc; Suppose one's sidereal time at birth is 18 hours
at Madras (or 13"N,). one is to refer to the table of houses to
the particular page in which the position is given for 13°N.
    Tiic ascendant will be Aries 0* iMeslia).
    The cusp of 2nd house Is Taurus 4* II is ha ba).
    The cusp of 3rd house is Gcmmi 4* (Mithuna).
    Ft om this one can note how each house varies in its Longitude.
     The secoud example is (he birth at 3-30 A.M., l.S.T. or
3 27.3(. A.M. L.M T. on            at Allahabad, 25 degrees 28
roinutts North Latitude and 81 degrees 34 tuiaut^s Bust Longitude
The sidereal time at the Utne of Dirth already Calculated and
arrived at is 18 Hours :5 minutes 18 seconds.
                               45

     Refer to the Raphael's Tables of Houses. To find the enact
point which was rising at the time of birth, i.e., the Asceadaol,
turn over the page In which the latitude 25 degrees 19 minutes
North vfor Benares) which is very near the latitude     the birth
place is given. On the right hand side page, the positions of
cusps are published for the sidereal times 18 Hours 52 Minutes
 M Seconds and 18 Hours 56 Minutes 31 Seconds.        The time at
birth happened to be 18 Hours 55 Minutes 18 Seconds which is
in between these two. The difference between the two sidereal
times given in the book is 18 Hours 56 Minutes 31 Seconds minus
18 Hours 52 Minutes 11 Seconds, i.e. 4 Minutes and 20 Seconds
or 4x60 plus 2iJ sec. or 260 seconds. The diffeience between
the sidrrcal time at birth IS Hours 55 Minutes 18 Seconds and
the s'dcreul time given, i.e., 18 Hours 52 Minutes 11 Seconds is
3 Minutes and 7 Seconds or 3 x60 plus 7 sec. or 187 seconds. So,
the fraction of 187/260 is to be worked out and added to the
position given for »8 hours 52 minutes 11 seconds.

               At the                      At the
                              Sign,
              Sidereal                     sidereal
                             Sa>aDa                    Difference
                lime                         time
                            pcirition
             l80-52'-l I                 l8*-5&'-3l*
10th cusp     n'-ou'       Makara          U'-OO'      I degree
lltb cusp      8° 00'      Kumba            9**00'      i degree
12th cusp      V'.oo*      Mecna           t0"-00'     1 degree
Ascendant     PM4'         Mesha           19'-11'     1 degree
                                                       27 minutes
2nd cusp      2 ..*'00'    Rithaba         2 3°-00'    1 degree
3rd cusp      18°-00'      Mithuna         l9o*00'      1 degree

     Now ybu havj to find out the exact position of the point
which was rising at births 1 degree 27 minutes or 87 a-inutcsx
187/2ti0=-nearly 63 trvimitcs or I degree a minutes. Add this to
l70-44' Mesha, l.c , 17*-44' plus le-.V= !80-47' Mesba will be
the exact position of Ascendant—Sayana System.
    For other cusps as the difference is only I degree or 60
minutes add 60 x 187/260 min or 13 minutes to the position of the
cusps given for tile sidereal time, i.e , 18 Hours 52 Minutes 11
Seconds.
                                46

     i berefore, the Sayana position for the cusps will be as
follows:

10th cusp  J2o-00' plus 0o-43' = 12 degrees 43 minutes Malcara
11th cusp   8MK/        0*-43' = 8 degrees 43 minutes Kumba.
12th cusp   9*-00'      0*-4J' = 9 degrees 43 mlnqtes Meeoa,
Ascendant l/0-44'       Ja.03'— 18 degrees 47 BDinotes Mcsha.
2nd cusp 22e-00'       0*-43' = 22 degrees 43 minutes Rishaba.
3rd cusp  18*-00'      0''-43'= 18 degrees 43 mloutca Mithuna,

     Add 180 degrees to the above cusp to find out the position
of the cusp for other bouses. Adding ISO degrees to tbe^cusp
of the 10th bouse, otherwise called meridian, the cusp cf the
4th house will be obtained. Similarly, adding 180 degrees to the
Uth cusp, the position of the 5th cusp can be bad, from the I2th
ascertain the     ISO degrees added to the ascendant gives the
7th cusp; 8th cusp is obtained by adding ISO degrees to the 2nd
cusp and the 9th from the 3rd cusp. Thus the position of all the
twelve cusps is ascertained.

         Ascendant           ISM?'          Aries (Mesba)
         Snd house           22'-43'        Taurus (Rishaba)
         3rd bouse           IS'-dV         Gemini (Miibuna)
         4th house           n'-4y          Cancer (Kataka)
            (Nadir)
         5th house            8*-43*         Leo (Sltsha)
         bib house            9&-43'         Virgo (Kannl)
         7th house           li0-4T          Libra (Thulaml
            (Descendant)
         8th house          22*-43'         Scorpio iVirschtk)
         9th house           l8*-43'        Sagittarius (Dhanus)
        10th house m.c.     l2'-43'         Capricorn (Makara)
        11th house            80-43'        Aquarius (Kumba)
        12th house            90-43'        Pisces (Mecna)

     (3) The birth Is at (2-05 P.M. I.S,T. or 11-25-32 A.M.
L.M.T. on 15-5-63 at Abmedabad, 72*-38' East Longitude and
23'-2' North Latitude. The sidereal time at the time of birth
already calculated and arrived at is 2 hours 54 minutes 40 second*
                                 47

     Now riTer to the Raphael's uhlss of Houses. To 6nd the
Asctodant, (uro over the page in which (be latitude 21 degrees
12 minutes which is very near the latitude of the birth place is
given. On the left hand side page, the positions of cusps are
published for the sidereal times L hours 54 minutes 7 seconds and
2 hours 5tt minutes 7 seconds. Tbe time at birth happened to be
2 hours 54 minutes 40 seconds, which is in between these two.
The difference between the two sidereal times given in the book
is 2 hours 58 minutes 7 seconds minus 2 hours 54 minutes
7 seconds i.e. 0 hour 4 mts. The difference between the sidereal
time at birth and the sidereal time given, i.e., 2 hours 54 minute*
7 seconds is 33 seconds. So, the fraction of 33/240 is to be
worked out and added to the position given, for 2 hours 54 mts.
7 seconds.


                At the                          At the
               Sidereal      Sign sayana       Sidereal    Difference
                 time          position         time

                2 hours.                        2 hours.
                54 mts.                         58 mts.
                                              1
                 7 sees,                         7 sees.
10th Cusp        16 00         Risbaba           17 00      r
1 Mb Cusp         18 00        Mithuna           19 00      i*
12th Cusp         19 03        Kataka            20 00      i*
Ascendant         17 54        Simha             18 47      O'-Sl'
2nd Cusp          14 00        Kanni             15 00      r
3rd Cusp          14 00        Thutacn           15 00      i"


    Now you have to find out the exact position of the point
which was rising at btrth. 0 degree 53 minutes or 53 minutes x
33/240=7 minutes or 0 degree 7 njinutcs. Add this to 17 degrees
54 minutes ; i.e., l7e 54'+0' 7'-=tl8', 01' will be the exact position
of Ascendant by Sayana system.

     For other cusps, as the difference is only 1 degree or 60
miftuteft add 60 x33/240 minutes or 8 minutes to the position of
the cusps given for the sidereal time i.e., 2 hours 54 minutes,
7 seconds.
                                  48

    Therefore, thrSavana position for thecusps will be as foilo^s.
                                                D, M,
         lOth cusp            16 00    plus    0-8^ 16 8
         11th cusp               00    plus    0-8= 18 8
         12th cusp            19 00    plus    0-8 = 19 8
         Ascendant            17 ■4    plus    0-7=. 8 1
         2nd cusp             14 00    plus    0-8 = 14 8
         3rd cusp             14 00    plus    0-8=  14 8 v
     Add 180 degrees to the above cusps to Snd out the position
of the cusps for the other houses. Thus, the position of all the
twelve cusps are obtained.
                           l>eg.       Mts.
         Ascendant           18          1    Siinham
         2nd bouse           14          8    Kanni
         3rd house           14          8    Thulam
         4th house           16          8    V nschikain
           (Nadir)
         Mh house            18          8    Dhanus
         rnh bouse           19          8    Malcnran
         7th house           18          1    K urn bam
           (Descendant)
         8th house           14          8    Mecnam
         9th house           14          8    Meshatn
        lOth house           16          8    Rishabant
            i Meridian)
        11th bouse            18         8    Mitbunam
        12th house            19         8    Katakam
    (4) Now let the fourth example be taken. Follow the
method to fix up the position of cusps  The birth is at 9-00
P.M. at Boston 71"—i West, 42°—2 ' North Latitude.
     The sidereal tiuie at the time of birth, already calculated and
arrived at, is 12 nours 48 minutes U seconds. In Kaphael's
Tables of Houses, please turn over the page in which the latitude
at which birth took place or which is very near, i.e., 42*—4z'
North to find out the point which waa rising at (he time of birth.
Oo the right hand side page, the positions of cusps are published
tor the sidereal times 12 hours 47 minutes iO seconds, and 12
b ours 31 miouics and 30 teconos, 7he time tit bath happened to
                              49

be P hours 48 minutes 11 seconds which is in between these two.
The difference between the two sidereul limes given m the book
is 12 houiS      minutes J2 seconds minus 12 hours 47 minutes
50 seconds ; i.e., 3 minutes and 42 seconds or (3x60) plus 42
seconds or 21?. seconds. The dilfereoce between the sid. tirnc at
birth 12 hours 48 minutes II seconds and the published one 12
hours 4? minutes 50 seconds is !1 seconds. So, the fraction of
21/222 added to the position given for 12 hours 47 minutes 50
seconds gives the position of the cusps.

                 At the         Sign         At the
                sidereal       sayana       sidereal   Difference
                  time        position        time
                12-47-'0                    Ii-5f-3'
lOth cusp        13 00        Tljulara      14 00          1 dtg.
1 lib cusp       to 00        Vmehikam      10 00          Nil
12th cusp          I 00       Dhanus         2 00          J dcg.
Ascendant        19 44        Ohanus        70 31         47 mis.
2nd cusp         25 00        Makriram      27 00          t deg.
5rd cusp           8 00       Mcenara        9 00           1 dcg.
    Now you have to find out the ex^ct position of the point
which was rising at lurth =*0 depree 47 minutes or 47 rainutcsx
2/22' ajinct, s or 0 degree 4 miautes. Add this to 19'—44' i.e.
19°— 44 4-0°- 4'= 19°—48' will be the exact position of ascendant
by Sayana system
    For other cusps, as the difference is only 1 degree or 60
minutes add iiOx 2i/222 minutes or 6 minutes to the position of
cusps given for the fidereal time, i.e., 12 hours 47 minutes 50
seconds.
      Therefore, the Sayana position for the cusps will be as
 follows:
                                       Deg.    Mts.
          10th cusp       13 00-(-0 6= H         6
          11th cusp        10 oo+o 0=10           0
           I2tb cusp        1 oo+o t>= I          6
          Ascenoant        19 i4 +' I 4=19      48
          /nil cusp        26 '00 +0 6 =--26      6
          3rd cusp          S 00+0 n= 8           6
                                    50

     Add 180 degrees tr» the ah^ve cusp^ to find out the posititftt
of the cusps for the other houses. Adding 180 to tbc cusp of the
10th bouse, the cusp of the 4th will be obtained. Similarly, adding
180 degrees to the lltb cusp, the position of the 5th cusp can be
had ; from the 12th find out the 6th ; 180 degrees added to the
Ascendant gives the position of the 'th : 8th cusp is obtained by
adding 180 degrees to the 2nd cusp, and 9th from the 3rd cusp.
Thus, the position of all the 12 cusps are obtained.
                            Deg          Mts.
         Ascendant           19           48    Dhanus
         2nd house           26            6    Makaram
         3rd house            8            6    Meenam
         4th house           13            6    Mesbam
         5th house           10            0    Rishabam
         6th house             1           6    Mtibunam
         7ih house           19           48    Mithunam
         8th house           26             6   Katakam
         9th house            8            6    Kanui
        10th house           13            6    Thulam
        11 th house          10            0    Vrischtkatn
        :2th house              1           5   Dbauus
    Let us take the last example and find out the position of
cusps for the birth ;it 7 AM. at San Francisco 122* —25* West
Longitude, 3# —48* North Latitude,
     This sidererl tinac at the tiiTv; o' birth which we have calcu-
lated and found out, is 22 hours 20 minutes 52 seconds.
     Now refer to the Table oi' Houses by Raphael to find out the
exact position thai was rising in the East at the time of birth,
turn over to the page in which the latitude 57*—58* N which
was nearer to the latitude of the place of birth, 3iM8', On the
right hand side, you will find the positions of cusps published for
the sidereal times 2t hours 19 minutes 48 seconds and 22 hours
23 minutes 35 seconds. The sidereal time at birth happens to be
22 hours -0 minutes 52 seconds which Is so between these two.
The diif=rcn;j bctwee u the two sidereal tithes printed in the book
U 22ad            anoutes Si seconds minus 2> hours 19 minutes
48 secoadi, Lc., J minutes and 4/ seconds or 3 x 60 -t-47 seconds =
227 seconds. The difference between the sidereal time at birtb
                                 SI

and the printed one. Is 22 hours 20 minutes, 52 seconds—2^ hours
19 minutes 4a seconds, i.e, 0 hour 1 minute 4 seconds ot
1x60+4 8cc9nds = 64 seconds. So the fraction of 64/22? Is to be
found out and added to the position given for 22 hours 19 minutes
48 seconds.


                At the          Sign,        At the
                Sidereal                    Sidereal
                               Sayana                  Difference
                  time                        time
                              position     22-23-33
              2;—19—48

iOth cusp       3 00         Meenam           4 00       l deg.
1 Itb cusp      6 00         Mcsbam           7 00       1 deg.
i 7th cusp     17 00         Rishabam        18 00       I deg.
Arc end ant    25 05         Mithunam        25 59      54 mt«.
2nd cusp       16 00         Katalcam        17 00       1 deg.
3Td cusp        8 00         Stmbsm           s 6o          NU.


     Now you find out the cxa't oositioo of the Ascendaal which
was rising at birtb~{0 degree 54 minutes or) 54 minutesx 64/227
(15 minutes or) 0 degree, 15 minutes. Add this 15 minutes to
2s*-05*.          will be the csaci position of Ascendant by
Sa>ao3 system to Gemim or Mitbuna.

    For the other cusp, as the dilfercnce is 1 degree only or
60 minutes, add 60x64/227 minutes or 17 minutes to the position
of cusps given for the sidereal time 22 hours 19 minutes 48
seconds.

     Therefore the Sayana position of the cusps will       be at
follows:

                                           Deg.        Mts.
IOth cusp                   3 00+0 17     = 3            17
t Mh cusp                   6 00 + 0 17   = 6            17
12th cusp                  17 00 + 0 17   = 17           17
Asceodaat                  27 t 5+0 15    = 2i           20
Z'ld cusp                  16 00-r0 17    = 16           17
jrd cusp                    8 00+0 €0     =. 8          00
                                 52

    AAA ISO degrees to find out the opposite cusps (Bhavas)
which will be as Follows :

    Ascendant        begins at         25   20     Milhunam
    2nd house                          16   17     Katakam
    3rd house         M                 S   00     Simhatn
    ^th house         >•                3   V      Kanni
    5th bouse         •1                6   17     Tbutam
    6lh house         M                17   17     Vrischisam
    7th house         If               23   20     Dhanus
    8th house         ft               16   17     Makaram
    9th house         •*                8   00     Kumham
   lOtb bouse         PI                3   17     Meenam
   Uth bouse          •»                6   17     Mesham
   12th house         tl               17   17     Rishaham

    Thus one is to find out the cusps beginning of the Bhavas
or Houses) for a motnent on aD> day in any part of the world.


To find out the potition of planets:

    The planetary position for any moment is to be calculated
with Raphael's Astronomical Ephemeris,

    The Standard time followed in India is i J hours in advance
of GreeQwieh MeBatime. The po»ilioD of planets i.e, the
longitude of planets printed in the Ephemeris is worked out for
12 Noon at Greenwich for each date, ox 5-30 P.M. I.S.T,

    The first example taken is the birth at 6-30 P.M. at Agra
which is 1 P M. G.M.T. (r.c. o-30 P M.—5-10 hours=l P.M.I

     You turn over the pages 10 and J1 in the Ephemeris where
the planetary position for the month of May, )l61 is given.
Find out the position on 15th and 16th as the birth has taken
place in between these two dates. The following is the position
of planets.
                          Position    Position Motion for
Planet         Sign
                        on 15—5—ti3 on 16-5-63  one day

Sun           R ishaba                     24—M         0-58




                                CY
                                VP
                                VY

                                ^t
                                 1
Moon          Kumbha          0—50         24-04       11—14
Mars          Simha          21-01         21—35        0— 26
Mercury tR1   RUhaba         27—58         27— -8       0-33
Jupiter       Mcsha            9—18         9 — 10      0—12
Venus         Mesha          25- 43        26-55         1-12
Saturn        Kumbha         22 49         22—51        0—02
Rahu          K«taka         ?3- ?4        23-31        0-03
Kctu           Makara        23 34         23—31        0-03
 Uranus R)     Kanoi            1 10         !— 10        Nit
Neptune        Vrischika      14—02         14-00       0—02


         indicates that the ptanet is retrograde : -
     The molioQ of each planet for a day, i e. ?4 hours is given
above. As birth has taken place 1 hour after I i Noon Green-
wich or I hour after 5-30 P.M. I.S.T, for '.'-hrch the position of
pianets is given, you have to find out proportion He movement
for the interval and add the same to the poiition on the
15th, if the planet is in direct motion or deduct it if the planet is
retrograde Rahu's position is aiscn on the top of the right
hand side on page I I as Moon'.1: Node. You have to add l!iO'
to fix up Rethu's iongilude.

    Sun moved 58' in 21 hours and in 1 hour it would have
moved 5S/24' or 2-10/24 mts. So add 2tnts. to the position on
15—5—63. Moon moved 1 1°-14'or 794 mts. in 24 hours. In 1
hour. Moon has moved 7-1/24-=33 2/24 mts So add 33 mts.

    Mars has moved only 2 2 in a day and in an hour it would
have moved only I' which is to be added

    Mercury also has moved only 33' in 24 hours. So in I
hour it has moved 1-9/24 uits. So 1' is to be deducted from the
posiiion on 15th as Budha was retrograde (Vakram).

    Jupiter has advanced only 12' in a day and in an hour it
would have moved      So we can add T to the position given
                              54

for J5th. Sakra (Venus) hat) a motion of t" IT 01 72' for 24
hours. la I hour Sukra would have moved 72/24*= 3' which is to
be added.

     As Saturn, Rabu, Neptune moved 2', >' and 2* only in
24 Imurs, you can take the same position for them as on 1 5 Noon
G.MT. Uranus did not move at all. Thus we have worked out
the exact movement of each planet for the birth time. The
following arc the phmetaryjpjsitions :—

    Son            23     Rlshabn        55 -fy         58




                                                 NvJ
                                                 It
    Moon           10     Kumbha         50 + 0 30 = 11 23
    Mars           2i     Sim ha         09+0 i=2i 10
    Mercury (Ri    27     Rlshaba        58-0 1=27 57
    Jupiter         9     Mesha          18+0 1= 9 ly
    Venus          25     Mesha          43+0 3 = 25 45
    Saturn         22     Kumbha         49        =22 49
    Rahu           23     Kataka         34        =23 34
    Ketu           23     Makara         34        = 23 34
    Uranus           I    Kanni           10       = 1 10
    Neptune (R)    14     Vrischika        2       = 14 2

     The above is Sayana position. You have to deduct the
Ayanamsa 23*-15' to find out the Nirayana position, which Is
followed by Hindus. Before proceediag further, let us know,
what is meant by Ayanamsa.
AYANAMSA

     It is important to find out the correct Ayanamsa and prove
it beyond doubt by using the stellar method of prediction ; but to
prove any Ayanamsa to be correct by taking the position of the
planet and the cusp of any house is not all right as this relative
position will remain the same whatever be the Ayanamsa :

    One may ask "Why the Ayanamsa is so much important ?"

     Ages ago, the Astrologers and the computers of the Almanacs
followed the then recognised methods of calculation of the
position of the planets with reference to the beginning of the
signs. But nowadays Nautical Almanac is published well in
advance and it saves the labour of the computers. All Pan-
changt will agree and give the same figure if these astronomers
use the same Ayanamsa. Because in the Nautical Almanac the
positions of the planets etc are worked out taking the Sayana
Zodiac (i.e. the commencement of the Zodiac which is moving
backward in retrograde motion at a steady speed which Is the
point of intersection of the apparent Sun's path called Ecliptic
and the Celestial Equator Sayana means that the Ayanamsa is
included—Nirayana means Nir-Ayaoa (i.e. Ayanamsa is deducted)
and deducting the Ayanamsa one obtains the Hindu Zodiac
otherwise called the Nirayana Zodiac or the fixed Zodiac.

     What happens when the Ayanamsa is different ? It is a Hell.
Already people lose faith in Astrology and if for the same
moment of birth for the same person by referring to various
Panchangs if astrologers calculate and note down the planets in
different signs and also give varieties of results for the balance
of the dasa at birth, the consultants ask "Is it to have some lame
excuse, for the failure in prediction, on a later date you are
giving so many horoscopes for one and the same person now?
Or do you want to impress on me that you are in possession
of many Almanacs? Or is it to confuse me with contradictory
                                56

planetaiy position 7 Cannot one find out by using stellar metfiod
which is correct and give up the Incorrect ones ?"
     In India, even in olden days there were IS Siddhantas.
Each differed from the other. Varahamifaira prcfered Surya
Siddbaniha and his method also was found needing improve-
ment. As regards the commencement of the Zodiac, the Wester-
ners take the point of intersection of the celestial equator and
the ecliptic whereas the Hindus take the first point with reference
to the AsterSsm, the group of the stars called Aswini which
when stared is said to appear like the head of a horse which will
vary according to Latitude
    To ascertain the exact position of the commencement of the
Fixed Zodiac, what arc the points that are necessary, so that one
can calculate and get the same figure as the other T
    (1) One should know when the fixed Zodiac and the
Sayana Zodiac were in the same degree i.e. when both coincide.
    (2)   The rate at which the moving Zodiac move# backward.
    (3) Which is the point to be taken as the first point of
Aries according to Hindu method, i e. Nirayana Zodiac.1
      1 The date of coincidence of both zodiacs'.—It will^/be
surprising to note the various figures. No doubt each can try to
justify hjs own method and claim that each is correct. If it it
based on any one particular principle, the result should be the
same when alone one can call it as a scientific approach. As the
results are different it is necessary to find out where the mistake
lies. The following table will give you the different opinion# of
the various scientists or astrologers.
          Cheiro           388 B.C.
          D. Davidson      317 „
          G. Massey        25c „
          Thierens         125 „
          ?. Councel         0 A.L
          C. Fagun         213 ,,
          Lahiri           285 „
          Knshnamurti      291
          P. S. Ray        319 „
          Sepharia'        m „
                                57

     2. The rate at which the point of ioieresectioa or the
Ecliptic and the celestial equator moves in retrograde motion ia
as follows and there too, there Is no agreem. nt.

              Aryabhata        46.3'
              Parasora         46.5'
              Varabamitaira    50.0'
              KaiSHNAMUan follows the figure given by
              Hbwcomb          50.23a8475
              Surya Slddhanta 54,0"
              Bbaskcra         59.9'

     3. Some astronomers take Aswini group of stars and It1,is
indeed difficult to fia a point when it is a group of stars. Others
take a point which is I8ltv from the one bright star Spica which
is taken as the guide to locate the area of the constellation or
asferism-Cbitra i—It is the 14th star of the 27 stars making up
the Zodiac, each extending to 13 degrees and 20 minutes. Spicf.
is taken to be at the end of Virgo and at the commencemeat of
Libra; hence it is taken to be at the sixth degree and 40th second
from the commencement of the as cert ism Chitra, Spica is
considered to be exactly in the Autumnal Equinox of the Fixed
Zodiac.

    Therefore the students of Astrology will be at a loss as to
which they have to follow.

     Let me state that the differeace between what I follow, what
Lnbiri and CO. Rajan follow is negligible. I can advise my
followers to take that Ayanamsa which I have given in this book
and when time permits in my Magazine Astrology and Athrishta
I will surely prove that what is published In this book Is very
correct and the proof that I will be giving by using stellar system
will convince one and ail. 1 have achieved one of my objects
only when the horoscopes cast for any moment by any astrologer
is the same and the dasa balance is also the same.
                                 5K


Frglish   Ayanarnsa   Engtiili        Ayanamia    English   Ayanamsa
 Year     Longitude    Year           Longitude    Year     Loogiiude
          dec   ft                    dec. mt.              deg.   mt,
 iS40      21   31    1894             22 17      1948        23   02
 1841      21   32    1895             22 1 8     1949        23   03
 1842      21   33    1896             22 1 8     1950        23   04
 1S43      11   34    1897             22 19      1951        23   04
 1844      2]   35    1898             22 20      1952        23   05
 1845      21   36    1899             22 21      1953        23   06
 1846      21   37    1900             22 22      1954        23   07
 1847      21   37    1901             22 23      (955        23   OS
 3 848     21   38    1902             22 23      3956        23   09
 1849      21   39    1903             32 24      1957        23   10
 1850      21   40    1904             22 25      1958        23   10
 1851      21   41    1905             22 26      1959        23   11
 1852      21   42    1906             22 27      1960        23   12
 185?      2)   42    1907             22 28      1961        23   13
 1854      23   43    1908             22 29      1962        23   14
 3 855     23   44    1909             23 30      1963        23   15
 3 856     2!   45    1910             22 31      1964        23   15
 1857      21   46    1911             32 32      1965        23   36
 3858      21   47    1912             22 33      1966        23   17
 1859      21   47    1913             22 33      1967        23   18
 1860      21   48    3914             22 34      1968        23   19
 3861      2]   49    1915             22 35      1969        23   20
 1862      21   50    1916             22 36      1970        23   20
 1363      21   51    1917             22 37      1971        23   21
 3864      2!   52    1913             22 38      1972        23   22
 3865      21   52    1919             2d 38      1973        23   23
 3 866     21   53    1920             22 39      1974        23   24
 1867      21   54    1921             22 39      1975        23   35
 1868      2)   55    1922             22 40      1976        23   25
 1869      21   56    1923             22 4]      1977        23   26
 3870      21   57    1924             22 42      1978        23   27
 3 871     21   57    1925             22 43      1979        23   28
 (872      21   58    1926             22 44      1980        23   29
 1873      21   59    1927             22 44      1981        23   30
 1874      22   00    1923             22 45      1982        23   30
 1875      22   0)    1929             22 46      1983        23   31
 1876      22   02    1930             22 47      1984        23   32
 1877      22   02    1931             22 ill     1985        23   33
 1878      22   01    1932             22 49      1986        23   34
 1879      22   04    1933             22 49      1987        23   35
 1380      22   05    1934             22 ■50     1988        23   35
 1881      22   06    1935             22 51      1989        23   36
 3882      22   07    1936             32 52      1990        23   37
 3883      72   08    1937             22 53      1991        23   38
 3884      22   08    1938             22 54      1992        23   39
 1885      22   09    1939             32 54      1993        23   40
 1886      22   10    1940             22 55      1994        23   41
 1887      22   11    1941             22 56      1995        23   41
 1S88      22   12    1942             22 57      1996        23   42
 1889      22   13    1943             22 58      1997        23   43
 1890      22   33    m-               22 59      5 998       23   44
 189]      22   14    1945             22 59      1999        23   45
 1892      22   35    1946             23 00      2000        23   46
 1893      22   16    1947             23 01      2001        23   47
                               59

      Tn the hofoBcope, taken for calculation, the Sayana position
of Sun was 23o-50' in Taorus-Rtshaba. The Ayanacasa figure for
the year of birth is 23°-15'. Therefore to ge NJrayana position,
deduct ZS'-IS' from the Sayaua position. If the Sayana position
is less than the Ayanamsa figure, add 30° to the Sayana position
and mark the planet In the previous Sign and note rhe Nirayana
position. As regards Sun it was in Taurus 23*-SO                By
deducting 230-I5' the figure obtained is Oa-35' in Taurus in the
 same sign).

     But if you want to find out the Nirayana position of Moon
which is          Apuarius-Kurobha as H'-SS' is leas than the
Ayanamsa figure           add 30* to 11*-23' you get 410-23' from
0* Capricorn—Makara. If 2'-15 is deducted, you will, get
18"a8' Capricorn—Makara, Thus deduct the Ayanamsa from
the Sayana position of all the planets and note down their position
which is Nirayana,
    (If you want ayanamsa from the years beyond ^001, for each
year add at the rate of 50,2388475 sees.)
; i       -                          t      c    S      K       ST     r
-S        •-      t     S-    I      3      v.   £      5       2      =          3
                                                                                  5*
           .t           t     ^      c:     ^           i"      a
                                                                ji
 , n      ;.-                 D      "      S    S>                               9
£ c       H                                 ^    -•                               O
                                                                                  !•*
   ' '.                                          ''                               m


' <       5*      2     *     «      2      S    »      ^       * T
                                                                                  «CO
                                                                                  W!
   »      a       ^     -     y      "      2L   sr             8 S"
   cr     •-'     *«    ry    -v     V7     &»   rr             r^T               U
                                                                                  O
   ?              *     *     X                  »              * ^
   *                                                                     C-.       U
                                       4
                                                                                  o
   V-     ^                   «•->
                              >>     ♦v >   v5   KJ
                                                 -^j ^
                                                     •»■        — 1K;•* jg
                                                                         *
 i 1      '       J     1      •      1      ^    )   !         !  )              5"
   O      —       CJ    ua            J«    —*   O --                    a
   UL     O       *.    *■    <0     <, A   O      JO           wwx


                                                                                 >
     :
                                                                                 **v
                   I     1     1      (     1                            ' 3     **» ;* i
3 1        .1 •   1^1                ^      K»   «■1»   •■ J     !J        ,     O
                                                                                 tr ^i, 1
 | tL .   * •     1^*   t#*   t >*   w      w    *«>    C       •. -                  A
                                                                       1
iJ *.«    ^( »     1
                  «—     I
                        V—     '      t     I    ^i      J      <-•*         9
                                                                             ^   m3
 (1 J*    *.1     Ofc   ^     ►»     «-*    Mk                         *•        O
 i
 t
 i      " ■ "
 A               V j?r                                  C>      —-
 JO         O O ^ £->       *•                                                    ?
                                                                                  •*    ,
                                                        x            :            Kt
      '•S!S«222',                                              2       *'a.
    H. t," «* « WiS ^                                   S       *"     s •>       O
    ^ » * 5-2          ST 2 »                           £■      "      »          ■>
    3       K) • »»         *                                             0
                                                                                  o
                                                                                  m
                                                                                  51"
          \.«           w            U           -#w            O      J*.
    ~b    Vi      ■«    O     *■     —      4i          <^      •*     ^>         3



                                                                                  n
                                                                                  O
    ^S^f*S2^ = 55                                                                 0
                                                                                  «
    "^sS'Sff^sES*"'                                                               Jf
    |itiSs|ta8f
                                                                                  F
                                                                                  «•-
    •  a f   ?
                                                                                  o"
                                                                                  0
                        B


                                                                                  ?
                                                                                  cx
                                                                                  m
AYANAMSA—VERIFICATK>N

     "Sir, 1q the last issue of "Astrology and Atbrlsbta" you have
started discussing about ayanamsa. Ever you advii? to use only
your ayanamsa. Can you kindly explain, confirm and prove that
yours Is correct, if it is satisfactorily proved, then it goes
without saying thai any other value Is Incorrect."

     "True," it Is an absolute necessity to fix ayanamsa.         So
saving a young person with his wife enters.
     "All right. Dally I can lake an nample and In a fortnight,
T shall discuss at least 12 horoscopes and prove beyond any doubt
that my ayanamsa alone is correct. What is needed is careful
sttentlon. honest attempt, open mind and unambigaous
eiplanalion."

    "Very good, Sir."

     "Let us take the horoscope of a girl. Work out (be time of
marriage ; the ruling planets of the hmhand; tbe transit of planets
at tbe time of marriage; the Ududasa—Vimshotharl—"

     He who just entered suggests "Sir, Wilt you mind taking my
wife's chart as an example 7"

     "Certainly ! Let me be furnished with a correct horoscope
erected following strictly what 1 advised in K.P. and a correct
statement of facts. Then my principles, findings and dicta are.
applicable universally to all hum^n beings. The rule It only
one."

     "Sir, this Is my wife's chart.   It Is erected according to you,
instructions."
                                  62

           VII 13* 27' Mari 4* 24' Ketu 7"47'
           Sat. 12* 30'iVm 13* 5fi*i IX 13* 56' X 12* 56'
           Vcn. 2* 22' Ura. 17° 50* Moon 14*27'


            Mercury
            24' 33'
           Sun 24* 27'                            XI 11* 56*
           VI 12*36*           7-40 P.M.
                               8—3 - 193S
                              at ir-39'N
                                78M2* E
           Jup. 25* n*                            XII 12*56'
            V 11*56*                             Nep. 27*3'



           IV 12*56' III 13* 56*
            Fonurm   R.hu T 47'        11 13* 36' Ate. 13*27'
             3* 27'

   Moon Uasa balance 6 yrs. 7 months 29 days.
    Piaoet signifies houses             House sigtuficators

 Sun     5, 6. 12, 4 and 7                 I Mercury
 Moon    9, 1)                            II Venus, Rahu, Ketu
 Mars    8, 7, 3, S                      HI Mars, Rabu
 Mercury S. 4, 7, 1 and 10               IV Sun, Jupiter
 Jupiter 7, 5, 4, 7                        V Sun, Mercury, Jupiter
                                                      Venus, Saturn
 Venus      5, 4, 7, 6, 7 and 9          VI Sun, Venus, Saturn.
                                                        Rahu, Ketu,
  Saturn    6, 5, b                     VII Sun. Mars, Mercury
                                               Jupiter, Venus, Rahu
  Rahu      6, 2, 3, 8, 7               VHI Mars, Rabu, Ketu
  Ketu      6. 8. 2, 9, 12               IX Moon, Venus, Ketu,
                                           X Mercury
                                         XI Moon
                                        XII Sun, Ketu
                               I
    For marriage, bouses J. 7 and U are to be judged.           Signifi*
cators are
    Venus, Rahu, Ketu, Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter,
    Venus, Kabu, Moon.
                              63

     Actual date ot tnarmge lq—11—61, The period runnSog at
that time was Rabu Dasa Mercury Bhukti Jupiter Antbra Rabu
Shooksbma,

    The day of marriage Sunday ruled by Sun star was Revathl
governed by Mercury when Moon was in Pisces owned by Jupiter.
Lagna at the time of marriage—Scorpio owned by Mars, Jyeshta
constellation governed by Mercury.
     By transit, Rabu was in Mercury star Ashlesba ■ Mercury
was in Rahu star Swathi ; Jupiter was in Sun star Venus sub :
Saturn is Sun star Jupiter Sub: Sun was in Mars sign Jupiter star
Rabu sub; Moon in Jupiter sign Mercury star. Thus, the signif-
Icators of 2, 7 and 11 houses ruled (as per dasa system) the dasa,
bhukti antbra and sookshma. Transit agrees.
     If one uses any ayanamsa, in value less than 2?.* 44' for 1938
then the result will be that the marriage ought to have been
during Rahu Dasa Ketu Bhukti.
    Now, the method adopted by me alone can clarify the doubt.
     What arc the ruling planets of the husband ? "Hullo ! What
(s your star ?"
    "Visaka 4th quarter in Scorpio sign."
    "So Jupiter and Mars are your ruling planets."
    "What Is the day of your birth 7"
    Thursday.
    So Jupiter is the lord of the day.
    Where is your lagna ?
   "Same Virgo, Sir," I was born at half past six on
16—3—33.
    "Hence Mercury is another ruling planet."
     Let us think for a minute. Can Ketu give marriage 7 In this
case he cannot as Ketu has to offer the results of Sun in 6 ; also
the 9th and 3ad houses. The day of marriage should be Friday.
The stage of the husband must be one of the 3 stars of Ketu.
Nothing agrees.
    "Stsea rej#ct outright If the ayaatmu ii leii this 22* 44
for mtr

    ShaU we try to And out why the bad a daughter horn on
12—12—1962 Wednnday, Moon la Gemini, Ja Mrlgulra itar In
Scorpio lagoa. She we* running Rahu Oua Ketu Bhuktl Jupiter
Antbta. The»e three pUneta are the ■ignificators of the honaea 2
■od 3 iDdlc&tlog birth of baby to a lady, tilth U Ircportant for
geati). Mercury Id the conateUatioD of Jupiter in 5 and tab of
Mcroory Is Jupliei'i iter gave the birth on a Wednesday when
Moon was id Mercury sign, Man star. Ml, to full, agree.

    "Sir, let u« verify how I got married on that day and my
wife Ii born in Virgo Lagoa, Taurua Rasi and Rohiot Moon star."

    "Yea; tblt ctsft be done. As per your itatemeat your lisoa
ia Virgo, Star Viaaka 4th quarter."

    The correct horoecrpe It as follows ;—

          Dn ?r 31'            !
          Mere 14*-T vm 6*-12' I>, 7*-12'   x f-u-
          vti e'-s'
          Sua r.4i*
                               1          1
             VAU
            23' 28'
             Rahu                           XI 3'-11'
            14* 09*
           VI 6'-12'      6 30   V 3.;
                            at 1f-04'          xn s'-ir
            Samro             aa'-iy b
             19*41'                            K«, lei-S*
            V S'-l 2'                          Nep
                                               Jup 24*-36

                        111 r-ij' !
            IV <M2'       Mcoa      n 6*.12'   j A*, e'-e*
                          r-36'   j


     Dim balance Jupiter 2 yean 0 month 29 days.

     Oa 19—11—61 the period waa Mercury Oasa Moon Bhskll
 Jupiter Aothra.
                                     65

Plaoet tigaificator of which house            House planets sigoiBcators
Sun     12, 6, 12, 4 and 7                I     Mercury
Moon    12, 2, 11, 7 and 4              II      Moon, Venus, Saturn
Mars    12, 12. 3 and 8                in       Mara
Mercury  5, 7,1 and 10                 IV       Jupiter, Moon. Venus, Sun
                                        V       Rabu, Saturn, Mercury
Jupiter       6, 12, 4 and 7           vr       Rahu, Siturn, Mercury
Venus        12, 6, 2 and 9           VII       Mercury, Moon. Sun,
                                                            Venus, Jupiter
Saturn       2, 5, 5 and 6            VI'I      Mars
Rabu         6. 6. 5 and 6             IX       Venus, Kelu, Jupiter
Ketu         6, 12 and 6                X       Mercury
                                       XI       Saturn, Moon
                                      XII       Mars, Moon. V nas. Suu,
                                                       M rii. Run, Jupiter

    Theief orc sigiii6cators of houses 2, 7«ud 1J arc VI .son, Venus,
Saturn, Mercury, Moon, Venus, Sun, lupiter, '^0011, Suturn.
    Titnc of Marriage Mercury D^sd. Moon Bhukti, Jitpilcr
Antfara, Venus hhookshma.
     Wife's ruling planets: Mercury. lord of hgtia, Moon lord of
the Nakshalhra, Venus, lord of the Mood rasi: Jupitei .iip^cls
both rasi and lagna and Moon was lo Jupittr sub lor your wife
at the lime of birth.
     Cn the day of marriage, Nakshatlira R^vatui, i.e.. Mercury
star Jupiter sign. Lagnaof marriage: M jts iiiya Scorpio Mercury
star Jycshta.
   Transit of planets: Moon in dasanatna Mercury star :
Mercury was in Venus sign Rthu star ; Jupiter was m Venus sub.
    The chart is correct. Marriage actually lo^k place on
19— 11—61, Noie that Jupiter was id 3 to htm and Saturn, lord
of 6, conjoined lord of 8 Mars. These are considered to be
dangerous by Hindus and Westerners respectively. But K.P,
proves that the traditional system is incorrect.

    Suppose you use any other ayanamsa, star itself may change:
dasa bhukti definitely changes. No other method can be strictly
                               <6

followcti. But in traditional system any one of (he thousand
rules may explain, after the event, and one baa to refer many
books to find cut that rule as it is difficult to commit to memory
all the tens of thousands of slokas.
     On 12—13—62 he had a daughter born.          What was the
period, then 7
   Mercury Oasa Man Bhukti Rabu Antbra. Girl's star was
Mars star, Mrig isiru in Mercury sign. Gemini Lsgna waa in
Mars iiga Scorpio.
    If one uses any other ayaoamsa and applies advacced stellar
method, to bim not oniy K..P. is useless but also the whole world,
     K.P. predicts with certaluty : re iterate when again ques-
tioned: Comes true when one waits and sees: But all other
methods whatever they are, they have no single rule : no cogency:
no coherence : no systematic application and never sore of
Bucceas. So, they have to wy "tendency/' Alto, the astrologers
have some mythological story and say that there is a curse for
astrology and hence if fails: another will say only Brahma can
be sure of prediction. These are only to take shelter whenever
one falls. Can any one predict any event to the day, applying
any single rule which shonld be applicable universally ? None
but K.P. followers can do it. Let them apply in case of twins.

SECOND DAY
     Next day the student comes also; nloag with bim enters an
gentleman. The new comer says, "Sir 1 am a regular render of
your magazine. 1 have n doubt about the position of Moon.
Some say that I am born in Uthnpndra, some any Rcmtfet.
I would like to hear from you the correct one."
    "All right give me the data, i.e., the time of birth in I.S.T.
and the date, month and year. 1 do not want to know where yon
were born, as it is unnecessary to note the position of Moon."
     "What all t have, I give you. Sir. This is the chart cast nt
Tinnevelly by an astrologer; he says that my star is Utfarapadra.
Tfwfi chart from Bombay also says Uthrapadra. Daaa balance
differs by one and half years This chart f got from Mysore
                               67

State. II shows Re^athi star aad Mercury Dasa balance. 15 years
and odd. Hence the differeLcc between Tinnevelly and tbis in
dasa balance is nearly 3 years. Which am I to take as a, correct
one ?"
     I referred to (fie Bphertsem for the time 5-36 p.m. gives by
Ste on jio7-1919. His day rf hir it was a Saturday. Moon was
in id* 15'Pisces Nirayaaa. "Therefore your star is Uthrapadra.
Sal.um Dasa balance is 0 year 6 months 19 days. The chart cast
at Bombay 3s very nearly correct except a few days difference In
dasa bhukti system. Position of other planets correct. The dasa
balance given from Tinnevelly is to be corrected.. The other
chart mentioning your nakshatra as Revatbi is absolutely
wrong."
     "How do you say so. Sir? Is it what you feel or is there
any ||ieutiiic explanation for your finding 7"
    What are the ruling planets today for this time of judgment ?
    Today is Saturday—lord Saturn.
    Star—Pjshya—lord Saturn.
    R-asi—Cancer—owner Moon.
     Lagaa now at 9-t5 a.m. 1,5.1. at Bombay ts 5' Pisces.   It is
JupiiEcps si^n Saturn star Saturn sub.
    Therefore StUurn, Moon and Jupiter are very strong rniing
planets for this moment.

    Hence ypur star is in Jupiter's stga Saturn star Jupuer sub
and Mooe «£& sub.

     If Moon sub sub is to be there then the dasa balance should
be between fi months 20 days and 6 months lO days. It can
neither be beyond S months 26 days and lets than 6 months
10 days. According to Kapbaei Ephcmeris and Krishnamurll
ayanamsa tt agrees -the other two values are therefore wrong.
One of them is ridiculously absurd.

     If Revatbi is to be your star, then Mercury should be one of
the ruhog planets at the moment of judgment. Mercury finds no
place here.
                                           €9

T»»d Bxampu
   Let at give 3 teii of boro*cort wh i" . t perwL baa for bit
dmt of b<rtb.

                             I                           l^gta
             Rtb*                                        7* 12'
             rtr                                         Mood
                                                         ts* «*
                             I


                                                                J
                                                       jtfp, 29*2*1
                                      5-10 P.M.
                                    at IJ'-W K-
                                      80'*i y
                                       Sat ifoij
          Veij, S" CS'            Ephomrria or Urff:
          Sat. 0^ 20*


             Man                 Merctny                  £«(«
            IS* 4V               is* .i4' !              1* 47*
          Sun 10' j«'
                                               i




            Km hu                                        Hum
                                                         Uooo
                                           i
                                           I

                         1


                                     V AKYA

            Vernu                                        Jopiur


                                           i
           Saturn,
            Man.                 Marcury                 SUbo
            Sun
      If     f:>Vc tbe other                      wii-Qtt >iL < s4 bett
•bliiSciog to be          fio r f?w f ^      oft '"apr''^ ?rrt *    sit
to»rt as ^oUosvs .


                       1           i                          i
             ^ *hu                 i            J   UdM       j

                       \           I            \             \

                                                              i
                                                    Mtkw
                               3-30 s.B
                              24*13-1M1
                             at 13*-04' H.
                               •O'-IS' B.
                               Saturday
             Veoui                                  JupltB'


         '
         1    Tda^s
         j     Sna                                  Ketbv
          1 idercUiT                                     1


      . J. thii-ii vhilt neither agreei with Drlg nor Vtlyt. I nok
 it the po; t-ni" <■' pkncts. Which can thli porion follow or ttM
it?
     £ asted hioj, mcntioo now which position of which planet
jou wio'. to i;jt. WfCD that Is fixed, you will be kaowlog which
lo follow.
    Let mc know wnether my Gura is exnlted or not.
     Rigist. Tike the ruling plaaets for this tnoment 3-38 p.m.
M I-Wj a; Botrdiiy, Lagna fag end of Gemini owned by
Mercury. Star Sathablsha governed by Rahu. Sign Kumba
owned by Saturn. Day Monday ruled by Moon. Hence Mer-
cury, Rafcu, Saturn and Moon are the ruling planets. Sun It not
a sign idea tor. Hence it is not Simha, It is only Cancer. Thftt
also Mood sign. Mercury star, Saturn sub, Rahu lub tub. 80
Jupiter should be between 2S>* 24' to 39* 43' in Csacer
    So ray Jupiter is exalted.
    'Yes'
                                 70

    Now ft is time for me to go to Bharatiya Vldya Bbavan to
conduct the class. Come on any other day if you want to clarify
any doubt.
    Before he leaves another person comes and says "Sir, a few
say that may sade sathl wilt be over and Saturn moves on to
Aries on 21-3-f9, Is it true" asks an Aquarius rasl-born.
     Though I wish that you are free ftom such depressing factor
that sade-sathi is over, yet, the truth is that Pisces is occupied by
Saturn. It will be there till 6-3-69. After all 16 days only more.
     Each aitnaoac differs from the other. How to 6ad out the
truth. Does Saturn moves on 21-2*69 ? So the question is where
will Saturn be on 22-3-69. Just now I explained to him that the
ruling planets for this moment are Mercury, Kahu, Saturn and
Moon. Rahu reptesenta Jupiter. Hence Saturn continues to be
lo Jupiter sign Pisces, in Mercury star Rcvathi, Saturn sub.
Mars is not a ruling planet now. If Saturn's position Is in Aries.
Mara will be a ruling planet,
    "Can I complete S.S.L.C. 7 I-was told that Saturn and
Rahu are in 11, Jupiter, bnlam is there as it is in 5 and so on.
Actually I have made many attempts. I am ashamed to say.
But one thing is certain, I will be appearing till 1 come out
saccesflful."
    "Do it.   But, what ia your reason to take such a decision ?
     "What Sir, girls somehow pass easily. They work bard.
Tbey concentrate. But, somehow I could not. This is the
main cause for my failure. When I am to get married, if t
remain as an unqualified cand dau and the girl whom I have to
marry has passed. Look at my prestige and position, Tbelr
must be the inrerlority complex. So I should make all efforts
and pass. No doubt, 1 was giving my life and worked hard.
Yet I failed once, twice, thirce, four times. Now let me make
one more serious a'tcmpt. 1 was all along thinking that the
beneficial Gochara result will help me. t have found them to
be useless. Now Sade-Sati has started. T want to see what
bappens. All thcae lead me. to doubt whether my chart Is right."
All right! Give your birth particulars.
    Born at Salem it 2-48 a.m. on 21—10--1948.
                                      71

St; the following is your horoscope :

                           Rabu             Moon
                vin       12M4'                          Ur« 7 *-27'
               73*-ir       IX              6M1'         XI 14M4'
                          ISM 4'           X IJ'-IS'


                Vt!                                          XII
               iv-w                                        14*-14'
                               2-4S A.M.
                               2; !t)-!P4S
                                11 •   N.                Sat. iO*-2V
                                78-J^ E.                   La gos
           VI 14'-U'                                       13*-44'
                                                            Veoua
                                                           23*-31'
                                           at i3*-i4'
           •V H». 14'   IV 15*-) 5'          Kettm       11 n*.'4j
            iJuyUei        Man              12'-14'       Neptune
             I'-oy                         Sun 4"'-2:'     20°-14'
                                           Mer 3*-24'

           Sub Dasa balance 1 year 6 months 24 days.
    "Dear boy, the chart has been worked out correctly.                That
which you have is also very correct.
    "Sir, Mcmw 'hat 'he calculation would be correct. He Is
wcrking id a b^ok. He foll.jws omy your system. But I doubt
whether my time c! binh h co.tcci."
    Do you doibt the time of binu by more than an boar?
    Nc, Sir.     It can b? Ics; thau half au hour, this way or that.
    What it the (rme on s 1
    11-50 a.m.
    Date: 2-—2—09.
    Day : Sunday.
    Where b Moon ?
    Taurus owned by Vtnus.
    Star.
    Karthlk ruled by San.
    Where is the legna 7 If you work oat yoo will find that it la
in Venus sign Sue Star.
                               72

     For the lime of birth given by you, the lagna falls in Sun's
sign Venus star Venus sub Sun sub sub. It Is O K.

     Your horoscope is correct. But to predict that you will pass
if at all when Saturn is in II to Moon is wrong. All people
born in Rlsbaba Rasl neither fail nor all pass. If they threaten
that Riahaba Rasl will be having Sade-Sathl and they cannot
pass hereafter Is also incorrect.

    You read my article on "Saturn's transit". Only hereafter
you enter into a better, prosperous and successful period.

      Ruling planets and intcrview : On II—3—19691 bad to
meet a very high official. A friend of tnine phoned me saying
that he would be happy if J meet him at 3 p.m. I and one of my
students had been to hie office at the stroke 3-30. I was told
that he was In a conference urgently arranged and that he
would be back in a few minutes. Also he added that the
officer knew that you would be coming at 3-30 P.M. and asked
me to request you to wait for a few minutes, I looked into the
 L'uhemeris. Then I recollected that his star was Jyeshta. I
worked out when the lagna will be in Mars star Mercury sub or
Mercery star Mars sub. I worked out and found that Mercury
star Mars sub will rise la the east for Bombay at 4-20 p.m.      So
at about 3-35 p.m. 1 told the clerk that he could not call mo
hefore 4-20 p.m. So I and my friend will attend to our other
business and be here by 4-20 p. m. This reply was strange to
him. After 4-15 p. m. we returned.          Just at 4-20 p.m. the
officer came. Many were waiting, He himself came to the
visitors' room and called me to come in and we went Into his
room.      He took his seat along with me and discussed.        He
 wanted me to hnd out his correct birth star. He had a doubt
 whether it was Jyeshta or Anuradba. I told him that if be would
 have been born In Anuradha, I would have met him at 3 p. m. as
 he fised up the time for interview as at that time lagna rising in
 the hast was in Saturn's star Pushya. I met him when the lagna
 was Ashlesha star, Moon was in Jyeshta star. There is no doubt
 todcilare that bis birth star is Jyeshta! Luckily at that time
 Moon was in Jyesta itself. At Saturn is not a ruling planet hlj
       '^n never be Anuradba but onlv Jvesta,
                                  13

    Thus ruling planets correctly reveal only when K.P.
Ayanamaa it used. If one uses a less value, tbe prediction must
miserably Fall.
    So only finding out tbc ruling planets and applymg properly
one need not waste one's time. Astrology saves tbc valuable
time.
     ArRivt□ at Madras: Classes at Madras started.            Many
highly qualified and very wcil-settied officials have joined. They
were heanog nay lectures. One of the members. Professor in
Medical College, Madras came on Sunday 23 — 3 — 1969 at
12 noon. His question was whether his lagna was Karkat or
Smba.
    1 noted the ruling planets.
    Sunday ruled by Sun.
    Lagna Taurus ruled by Venus.
    Lagna in 7* 7' in Sun star Kethu sub.
    Moon was In Karthik star Venus sub.
    Therefore, Sun. Venus, Ketbu were the ruling planets.
    His '.ime of birlb was 7-10 p ni. on 29—t —19281 at Madras.
He had cbMits already crccied by ■ few. Some bay Cancer lagna
and some Leo lagna.
    tf Cancer is to be lagoa, Moon Mercury, Saturn or Jupiter
should be (be ruling planets. It ia not so.
    This method of fixing is ever true. Never it falls, ft is
convincing and correct. One can foUow after venf/ing m known
cases and confirm the truth.
     Once 1 published thai a young daughter of mine who knows
about ruling planet* gave reply by the aame Telephone trunk
call which was a surprise to them. I was in the Government
House, at Bangalore talking with tbe Bx-President Or, Radba-
kritbuas who was also in the Oovcrnueat House m another
ball. He came to attend a function in Lai Bagh where Kuia-
panp Mc K.. M. Munshiji arrabged a conference. Mrs V. V Gin
wanted to find out how far I have perfected the science. So she
asked me to mention the turth star of a bridegroonj who married
                                1i

her granddaaabtcT. T told her, You know the star- [ ean at
once say. Now you drat 440 449 to Madras. My child will say.
Ton put only this question. Never say who you are, etc. The
question should be "What is the birth star of a young gentle-
man 7" In 10 seconds my daughter replied ' Sitnha Rasl Maka
star."

       "Is it Yekshini?"

       "No."

       "Is jt a magic 7"

       "No."

       "Is It a guess 7"

       "No."

       Or did she reply "it can be or it may be Maka "

       "No,"
       "What is it. then?"

       "II IS ONLY K.P."

    Thus, on thousands of occastons—not one or two they
have mentioned the correct lagnn, star, rasi. etc. Indeed a
surprise to consultants as they were correct. It Is due to
Krlshnamurti's correct ayanamsa and his discovery.

       Let us understand what a rasi chakra and a ffavamsa chart
are.

     [Westerners never include Navamsa. But in India it is
uivariubly used in the South. North Indians do not make use
of Navamaa Cbakratn even though many draw the map. Raai is
otherwise called signs or solar mansions. There are exactly 30*
in Longitude]

      Rasi chakra is drawn in different ways even in the same
 place in India. But in South India, especially in Tamilnadu
 and Kmala, the following map is used.
                                /5

                               (a)


                                       El
      F-ISC^S        ARIES           TAURUS     GiEhlNt
                    mm
      530- 360      Oe- 30'          30*- so'    fco*- ©o*


      AQUARIUS                                  Cancer
       KUMBHAr
      300-330"                                   go'-iao*"


        EH                                         maa
     CAPPlCOPM                                     LEO
     mamarah                                     BSEP
     370°-BOD'                                   l-iD*- I5"Dd


      SAStTT>*Ujs! SCORPIO           L'.bra      Vtff&O
                          25*5
      *2A00-i70                      leoL^fr     IS Oa-I 00*



      (a) in the map A, Aries sign is at the top of the square, but
it is the second from the left. Then clockwise each sign is noted ;
Taurus or Risuaba is the third from the left corner and
Gemini or Mitbuaa Is the Right, top corner. Cancer-Karkata
is below Gemini, Leo Is next below Cancer; Virgo Is the right
bottom corner. Then Libra-Thulam is left to it and so on.
Pisces, Meena, is the top corner on the left side. Rasi chakra
 figure is adopted for Navamsa chakra, also. Name and the
 lord of the Navamsa Sign remain the same.

     In Rasi ;Chakra, Aries represents 0* to 30' Taurus 30° to 60*
Gemini 60* to 90" and so on and Pirccs—Meena 330" 360". But in
Na%'amsa chakra each sign denotes only a lonijitude of 3*—20'.
Navamsa means a division of nine equal pans. Iff 30" is divided
into 9 equal parts, each is 3*—20'.
                                   76

      As it will appear clumpy to divide a sign into 9 equal parts,
and insert a planet in its aavamsa position in a sign and because
the Hindus say that the Lord of Navatnsa. sign is the same as the
lord of the sign and the planets, according to their position in
each sign, will occupy a sign in the navamsa chart and hence,
the lord of the rasj is the owner of the sign in which a planet
was, whereas the lord of the Navamsa sign is the owner of the
sign ,as ip rasi|. Suppose a planet is in Aries II". Then it can
be seen that it is in Aries sign ruled by Mars and in Navamsa it
ia in Cancer and its lord is Moon. Suppose one planet is In
Taurus IT1. It is in Taurus in the sign and from the table of
Navamsa you can find that the planet in Navamsa will occupy
Aries when the lord of the Navamsa sign is Mars. If a planet
is in Gemini 28", (hen the lord of the rasi Is Mercury ; it will be
also noted that in Navamsa also, the pi inet is inserted in Getninl-
Mithdoa and the lord of Navamsa is again Mercury (If a planet
occupies the same sign in rasi and Navamsa, it is called
Vargothama).

                             (b)
             In Bengal the Map used is given below

          .TauRuS       I   ARIES           (Ptsces
               SiSMABfti R MESH A               em
                 30'6ol     „                         AaUARlUS
                             0 3c
                        I      '        '   I    XEEUm
       MITHUNA                                    300 - 330
            60- 9cr


        CANCER                                  CAPRICORN
                                                MAKARAM
         so* Mb*                                 IVr)' $qq*


        LEO                  LIBRA                .SAGITTARIUS
      SIMWA                 THUfc A Hi
                   Vlftfiol ——              ESCORPld BHANUS
     tio'-iso*
                KANHI       iSo- 210°       l2QQ^Vc-270'
              WO0- 190' |                   I 2)0' ^0*
                               77

    (b> In map B which is in use io Andhra, Orissa and Bengal
the middle sign in the top row is ever Aries, whatever be the
ascendant, Lagna. If the Lagna falls in any degree in Aries,
Lagna is written in the sign Aries. If the Lagna falls in the sign
Libra, then Lagna is written at the bottom, middle square one
and counter clockwise the signs are counted. The Cusps are not
maiked.
    In Noxth India. In manv ntnees the following Is In use.




        XIIX                         VHIX


       nr      xlagnaXxi




              IV                            x




       V                   VII                     JA


               VI                         VII


     (C) Map 'C1, which is used mostly by North Indians, repre-
sent! the signs in order, counterclockwise. But the first square
at the top Is the sign in which the Lagna falls, whatever be the
degree Is which the asceudaul rises. The next left one is the
second sign. The next left is the third and so on. So one Is to
count the signs just like one who uses the Map B and not like
one who uses the Chart A.
All thh 3 abovb arb erectbd according to Nirayana svsTfiit
                                       78

            Tbi following Table will be Self-explaaatory
                  To erect both the rasl & Havamsa Chart

PoaitioD lo the      Sign or    Lord of the  POlttlOQ ID   Lord of
    Zodiac            Rasl         Sign     Navamaa Sign Navamia Sign

 O.OO— 3.20         Ariel       Mara        Aries          Mais
 3.20— 6.40          ft          ft         Taurus         Venus
 6,40-10.00          »»          *1         Gemini         Mercury
10.00—13 20          ft          ft         Cancer         Moon
13.30—16.40          •t          |V         Leo            Sun
16 40-20.00                      tt         Virgo          Mercury
20 00—21.20          ft          ff         Libra          Venus
23.20-26.40          tl          ■t         Scorpio        Mars
26.40-30.00          If                     Sagittarius    Jupifer

30.00—33.20 Taurus              Venus       Capricorn      Saturn
33 20 - 36.40 «»                 It         •Aquarius      Saturn
36.40 -40 00                     »*         Pisces         Jupiter
40.00-43.20                      It          Aries         Mars
43^0—41.40                       •i          Taurus        Venus
46.40— 50.00                     ft          Gemini        Mars
50.00-53.20   ft                  It         Cancer        Moon
53.20—36.40   M                   It         Leo           Sun
56.40-60,00                       #f         Virgo         Mercury

60 00—63.20         Gemini      Merc         Libra         Venus
63.20—66.40          •9          tt          Scorpio       Mars
66.40—70,00          •»          tt          Sagittarius   Jupiter
20.00—71 20          •t          tfl         Capricorn     Saturn
73.20—76 40          ft                      Aquarius      Saturn
7640-80.00           ft           «t         Pisces        Jupiter
80.00-83.20          PI           tt         Aries         Mars
83.70-86,40          vt           tt         Taurus        Venus
86.40—90.00          ft           »•         Gemini        Mercury

 90.00-93.20 Ceocer              Moon        Cancer        Moon
 93.20-96.40   pt                 tt         Leo           Sun
 96.40-100,00 tfr                 M          Virgo         Mercury
100.00-103.20 •P                 tp          Libra         Venus
103.20-106.40 >»                  >»         Scorpio       Mars
106 40—110.00 tt                  n          Sagittarius   Jupiter
110.00—113.20 tt                  it         Capricorn     Saturn
113.20-116.40 tt                  tt         Aquarius      Saturn
116.43—120.00 It                  «t         Pisces        Jupiter
                                79

Poiition in the    Sign or   Lord of the   Poaition In  Lord of
    Zodiac          Rail       Sign      viuvamta Sign Navatnia Sig

130,00-123.30       Leo         Sun        Aries         Mars
123.20-136 40        II          tt        Taurus        Venus
136.40— 130.00       >1          If        Gemini        Mercury
no 00-131 30         11          *1        Cancer        Moon
133.20—136.40        11          91        Leo           Sim
136 40-140 00        ft          •1        Virgo         Mercury
M0 00—14120          *•          fI        Libra         Venus
143 30—146 40        II          11        Scorpio       Mars
146.40-150.00        II          f1        Sagittarius   Jupiter


150,00- I5V20      Virgo      Mercury      Capricorn     Saturn
153.20— 156.40                             Aquarius      Saturn
156.40—If 0.00                             Pisces        Jupiter
160.00-163.20                              Aries         Mars
163,20—166.40                   •I         Taurus        Venus
166 40-170.00                   II         Gemini        Mercuty
170 00—173.20                   fl         Cancer        Moon
173.30-176.40                              Leo           Sun
176.40-180.00                              Virgo         Mercury


) go 00—183.20     Libra       Venus       Libra         Venus
183.20-186.40                   »»         Scorpio       Mars
186.40-19000                    IS         Sagittarius   Jupiter
190 00-193 20                    ll        Capricorn     Saturn
193.20—196.40                   ft         Aquarius      Saturn
196,40- 200.00                  it         Pisces        Jupiter
200.00—20 3.20                  If         Aries         Mars
203.20-206.40                    if        Taurus        Venus
206'4[j—210.00                  11         Gemini        Mercury


210.00—213.30     Scorpio    Mars          Cancer        Moon
213.20-216.40        If       »B           Leo           Sun
216.40-220.00        It       ik           Virgo         Mercury
220.00-223.20        IB        if          Libra         Venus
223.20-226.40        l»        ir          Scorpio       Mars
226.40-230 00        *•       ••           Sagittarius   Jupiter
230.00-213,30        II       II           Capricorn     Saturn
233.20-23f.40        IS        it          Aquarius      Saturn
236.40-240.00        «»                   'Pisces        Jupiter
                               80


Position id the   Sign of   Lord oi the  Position in   Lord of
    Zodiac         Rasi       Sign      Navamsa Sign Navamia Sigi

240,00—343.20     Sagi      Jupiter       Aries          Mars
243.20-246,4a       >1          M         Taurus         Venus
246.40-250 00       tf          rr        Gemini         Mercury
250 00-2» 620       9f          II        Csncer         Moon
253.20—256.40       ■9          *9        Lcn            Sun
256.40—260,00       #»          o         Virpo          Mercury
260 00-263.20       *11         91        Libra          Venus
26^.30-266 40       If                    Scorpio        Mars
266.40-270.00       II          II        Sagittarius    Jupiter


270 00—773,20 Capricorn       Saturn      Capricorn      Saturn
2"'3,20—276.J0                            Aquarius       Saturn
276 JO 2S0.( 0                            Pisces         Jupiter
2S0 00-283,70                             Aries          Mars
283. 0—286 40                             Taurus         Venus
286.40-790 00                             Gemini         Mercury
390 00-213.20                             Cancer         Moon
293,20—296.40                             Leo            Sun
296.40- 300.00                            Virgo          Mercury


300.00—301."0 Aquarius       Saturn       Libra          Venus
303.30— 06.40   i*              >1        Scorpio        Mars
306.40-310,00   11              II        Sagittarius    Jupiter
310 00—313.20    it             ft        Ca pricorn     Saturn
31 '.20—316.40  3t              f*        Aquarius       Saturn
316.40-320.00    It              it       Pisces-        Jupiter
320 0 1—321.20  II              II        Aries          M»rs
323.10 326.40    a*              I*       Taurus         Vcnua
326.40-3 30.OU   19              1^       Gemini         Mercury


330.00—333.'0     Pisces    Jupiter        Cancer        Moon
33 <.*0-336.40                  II         Leo           Sun
336 40-340.00        It         1»         Virgo         Mercury
340 00-343.20        II         It         Libra         Venu®
^43.20—346.40        It         1*         Scorpio       Mars
346.40-350.00         II        91         Sagittarius   Jupiter
350.00-353.20        It         >1         Capricorn     Saturn
355.20-356.40        >9         99         Aquarius      Saturn
336.40 - 360.00       11                   Pisces        Jupiter
                                 81

     In WestERN Countries in the circukr one they erect the
chart and the planets are inserted according to the Houses they
occupy. This is "Sayana System,"
     (d) Westerners do not draw the horoscope, sign after sign.
But the twelve lines which appear lilce the spokes In a wh'd are
the 12 cusps which are the partitions of the 12 Houses or Bhavas,
whatever be the sign and whatever be the degree ^position) in
that sign. The ascendant is the horizontal radius proceeding
from the centre leftwards. The Descendant or the 7th cusp Is
the other horizontal line proceeding in the right from Che Centre.
The perpendicular one drawn vertically upwards, shows the
 point overhead i.e., the meridian of the locality of birth which is
 the Cusp of the lOih house. Diametrically, in the opposite
direction, vertically down from the Centre, a line is drawn
 which is the 4lh Cusp and it is termed Nadir. Houses 12. 11, 10
                                 (d)




                                      //
                            N>             3?
      5SJ

                                           St
                                 til w




 are the visible hemisphere, the eastern h ilf of the horizon ahov^
 the earth. The 12th Bhava extends from the Ascendant to the
                                82

12th Cusp. The Hth Btiava or House extentis from the Pth
Cusp to ihc 1 itb Cusp The lOth House is spread over from 1 tth
Cusp to the 10th and so on. The Lagna Bhava Is to rise. So
from the ascendant, counterclockwise below the earth, the
Laftna Bhava extends upto the 2nd Cusp. The Second Btnva is
between 2nd Cusp ind the 3rd, The houses 9I 8 and 7 arc above
horizon and they occupy the visible western horizon. It extends
from above the bead to the point in the west where the earth
appears to touch the horizon—setting point caiied Descendant
Houses I, 2, 3,    h and 6 are below horizon.
     While making out a horoscope, they use this imp, andonsert
planets in such relative positions as they appear in the Zodiac.
The exact degree and minute with the symbol of the sign in
which a Cusp falls is noted at the end of the radius near the
circumference. They use only the Say ana Position.
     As 1 am dealing with advanced system of stellar astrology
the students have to erect the chart according to Nirayaoa
system and try to acquaint with chart *A which is in use id
Kerala and Madras,
Vlmsboddhart Data
     The Hindus take the exact posilioo of Moon at the time of
birth, find out in which constellation (Nakshatra. star Moon
then was, the planet that governs tbc constellation, the total
number of Solar year allotted to that planet, the position or the
star already passed before birth and the balance of the Naksba-
thra that is to run ; after calculation, find out the balance for the
period that is to pass from the time of birth and then the order
of the dasa is to be followed.
     They call tbc periods of tbc plancta as "Dasas", The Hindu
sages have adopted and advocated many dasas of which three are
largely in use. They are Vimshoddhan Dasa, Ashlonan Dasa and
Kulacnakra Dasa. Of these, the Vimshnddbart is found to be
very simple, most accurate sod scientific.
     They have taken the seven planets (who rule the seven days
of the week) and also the nodes, Rahu and ICetho, It is not yet
known why tbey have recommended to follow a particular order
of the periods, and also why they have allotted each planet a
patticular uumber of years Ketbu 7 ; Vcnuv 20 ; Sun 6 ; Moon
 10; Mars 7 ; Rahu IK; Jupiter 16; Saturn 19 md Mercury ]7
years).
     Each'planet rules many years. But it will be advantageous
to krow the exact time instead of saying in the da^a of Venus
which runs for 20 ycais one wtli get naarned or cmDlnyed etc.
So, they have divided the ''Dasas" into 9 Bhuk' es Apaharas —
sub periods) and the » Bbukties tApaharas—sob periods) arc
ruled by the 9 plane is in the cyclic order.
Planets       Stars        Position in the Zodiac           Dasa period

            Aswioi           Aries          0e to :38 20'
Kethu       Makam            Leo            IT to 13* 20'       yean.?
            Moolam           Sagittarius    0° to 13° 20'

            B ha rani         Aries       13°-20' to 26'-40'
 Venus      Poorvapaiguni     Leo         13°-20' to Ifi'-aO' years 20
(Sukra>     Poorvashada       Sagittarius          to 2tr-40'

            Karitnkai        Aries       26**^0' to Taurus 10'
Sun         Uihrapalguni     Leo         26'-4o' to Virgo 10° yrs 6
            Uthrasdadft      Sagit'arius 2;>°-40* to Capri, 10'

            ftohini          Taurus         10° to 33o-20'
Moon        Hastham          Virgo          10* to 23°-20*     years 10
            Sravanatn        Capricorn      10* to 23'-20'

Mars        Mrigasirisbam    Taurus        20'20' to Gemini 6o-'l0'
vKuja)      Cnuhrai          Virgo         23'-0r toLibrab'-^'yrs?
            Dhaaistata       Capricorn     2jb-20* to Aquarius 6'-40'

             Arudbra         Gemini        6° 40' ta JO"
Rahu         Swfttbt         Libra         6" 40' to 20''      year* IS
             SathaDbha       Aquarius      6' 40' to 20°

             Punarvasu     Gemini          20° to Cancer 3'-20'
Jupiter      Visa it am    Libra           20' to Scorpio 3"- zO'yrs 16
(tiurui      Poorvapalhra-
               pada        Aquarius        20' to Pi see r 3'.20'

             Piishyatn       Cancer        3'-20' to I6--0'
Saturn       Anuradba        Scorpio       3°-20' to 16"-40' years It-
             Ulhrapalbra-
                pada          Pisces       s'-20' to 16°-40'

             Aslesha         Cancer        t6'-i0' to JO"
Mercury      Jyeshta         Scorp'o               to 30*      /ears 17
\ Budtia)    Kcvatbi         Pisces        lb'-40' to 30*

Teal        Planets 9    stars 3x9.     degrees.    120x3. years 110
                               84

As ibc Bhulcties also run years they are again sub divided among
the same nine planets and this sub division is called Aotharas.
Further, it is subdivided Into Sookshmaa, Praaa, etc.
     The planet taken for calculating Vimshoddhari Dasa it Moon
and its position in the zodiac at the time of the birth of a child.
So hod out the position of Moon at the time of the birth of a child
or the comineDccment of any project. Depcndlag on the constel-
lation position of moon, the dasa at the time of birth is chosen ;
then (he exact position of Moon in that constelUtion gives the
balance of the period of that dasa. Suppose Moon is at 0° Arles-
Mesha. Moon is in the coastellatioa Aswtai. Aswmi is governed
by kethu. Kethu't total period is 7 years. As at the time of birth,
Moon has not passed any part of Aawlni. it has to pass all the
 13'—2l)'. These seven years represented by 13°—.0' have to run
from the time of the birth of the child. But if a child is born
when Moon was in 6*—40' Aries, Moon has moved before the
birth (or before commencing any work) 6°—40' in Aswiol and is
to ma another 6*—40' to complete Aswini, i.e.. Moon has passed
exactly half of Aswini and is to hnisb another half. Therefore,
in the total period of seven years, half of it i.e.,    years have
passed before uirth of the child.
     If Moon would have been in 3*—20' of Aswini, Moon was in
Ketu's star. It had pasted 3*—20'*i3x60i-(-20=»20i>'. The
total nuraoer of miautes for each star of U"—20'=.(13x60,)-(-20
=^800'. fherefore before birth, 200 divided by 800 K.etu Dasa
had pissed ; 600/800 is to pise. For 800°, Kctu period is 7 years.
Hence for 600/800 of K.eiu period, balance nt the time of birth is
600;H 00 x 7 years = 6 years 3 months.
       Suppose sdoon was to Pumrvasu cjastcllitioQ in Gemmi at
26°.
    En Gcm.ni 0° to 6*—40' is Mngtsinshaai 6*—40' to 20" is
Arudhra, 20° ia 30° in Gemini and 0* to 3*-20' in Cancer
(katalum) IS fuoarvasu.
     It Moon would have been in 26" in Gemini at the time of
birth then 6x60 =GoO', Moon had already ruoved in Punarvasu.
It has to move 0° mmui 2b°=4* and 01 to 3*—20' io Cancer—
4 + 3"—20' = t7x60)' + j0'^440'. Therefore Mood has
moved 3.0.. It has to move 440'.
                                 83

    PuBBrvtHU is ruled by Jupifer. The Vimshoddhari Oasa of
Jupiter is 16 years. Hence for 800', Jupiter (Guru -Viyazhau—
Bnhatpsthij dasa Is 16 years. The dasa period to pass
                                      440-w x 16 years--5-
Tbat Is, 8.8 years of Jupiter dasa is to rua.

     So, find out la which star (constellation^ Moon was at the
time of birth. Note the lord of the Natshathra (constellatloa).
Find out bow mauy ye^is that planet runs (refer to the table).
Find how many degrees already and how much more it has to
transit to complete that particular Star (even though the star
may extend to the next sign or the star would have commenced
in the previous sign). The remainino portion alone is to bb
taken fob calculation. Convert the remaining portion into
 minutes. Divide by 800, Multiply by the number of years for
the dasa (Dasa is indicated by the lord who rules the star).

     Anotber example will clarify: Suppose one ts born with
Moon In 8* In Capricorn—Makaram; In Capricorn, 0* to 10* is
Utbrashada. Uthrashada commences at 36*—41* lo Sagittarius—
Dhaous. Therefore, the last 3*—20' In Sagittarius and (he first
10* tn Capricorn Is Uthrashada. Moon was In 8* in Capncom.
Therefore only 2* are left In Ulhraibads.

       Uthrashada is governed by Sun. The total period of San
(Sun's dasa) ia b years. So, the period of sun's dasa at the time
of birth, as Moon was In S degrees In Capricorn is 2 x 60'■(20
minutes divided by 13*—20               tnultiplicd by si* years
     120
= ——- x 6 = 0.9 year = 0 year 10 mouths 24 days,
    lisllU

     Thus one Is to ascertain how much period of a particular
dasa Is left over at the time of birth. After this period is over
tbc other dasas will follow one after another in the order give*
and the number of years of the following dasas.

    If one Is horn In Rohini star, l.e , when Moon was between
W* end 21*—20' is Taurus, one will have Moon dasa to start
                                (it)

with at tne tirre          The perind ieft over which Is to run
after the birth depends on its txjet position in the star, Ruhini
and the portion which it has to cover to complete the star.

     After the balance fn Moon dat.a is over, 7 vears of Mars
dasa, 18 years of Rahu dasa, 16 years of Jupiter dasa, 19 years of
Saturn dasa, etc, will follow one after the other in this order, as
given above

      If one vas born in Pushvatn star, having Moon between
3*—20', and 16°—40' in Cancer—Kataka. Saturn dasa starts at
the time of birth and the balance of Saturn dasa depends on the
portion of Pusbyatp star to be transited. That portion which was
transited by Moon Is that part of the dasa spent away before the
birth. But that portion which is to be covered by Moon to
complete the star shows the balance of the Saturn dasa left out
lit the time of birth. Then follows after Saturn, the dasa of
Mercury for the total period of 17 years, then the total period of
7 years of f etu. followed by 20 years of Venus and so on.

    If the birth was in Visaka star, commenciog from 20 Libra
and extending up to 3*—20' of Scorpio, the dasa at birth is ruled
by Jupiter. The balance of Jupiter dasa at birth is the longitude
in Visakam to be transited by Moon before entering into Anura-
dha divided by 13°—20' of star, multiplied by the total number
of years of Jupiter, i.e.. 16 years. Then foliows the total period
of 19 years of Saturn 17 years of Mercury, 7 years of Kethu, 20
years of Venus aid so on.

     The longitude remainiiag in the star, converted into minutes,
divided by 600 and then multiplied by the total number of years
of the dasa of that etsr, gives the dasa balance.

     (If Mood was in 12* Libra, it means that Moon was in the
star Swethi. The ruling lord is Rahu —Rahu dasa extends for 18
years. Swathi starts at 6*—40' and extends upto 20° Libra. As
Moon at birth was in 12°, Moon has to move 20°—12^=8° to
coirsplete Swathi &o=4g0'. Therefore the balance of dasa at birth
=^480-1-800 and then multiplied by 18 vears^4 Ox 8^-800=108
yesrs=l0 Years 9 Momths 18 Days. (It mean? before birth 7
years 2 months 12 days Rahu had passed).
                                  87

    So one bag to take that the person baa to run 10 years 9
 months and )8 days from the time of hfs birth.
     The following table may be useful to calculate, of to quickly
verify the balance in the dasa at the time of birth. The formula
is

                                For 1"                For 1'
      Dasa
                       yeary,    mths. days.           Days

  Ketbu                  0        6      9           3.15 days
  Venus                   1       6      0          9.00    „
  Sun                    0        5     12          2.70
  Moon                   0        9      0          4.^0   „
  Mars                   0        6      9          3.15   „
  Rabu                   1        4      6          8.10   „
  Jupiter                1        2     12          7-20
  Saturn                 1        5      3          8.55
  Mercury                1        3      9          7,63   (t


Sub Division of the Dasas
    Suppose one is born with Moon in 16 degrees in Taurus—
Rtshaba. i.e., 4(j' from Aries—Mesha 0*.
     We are concerned with the portion of the star that is to be
transited by the Moon to complete the star after the birth. The
position of Moon was 46". Therefore Moon had passed 40" to
46" or 6". This need not be taken. But take only the portion to
be covered. The star extends upto 53a?6', Moon was at 46*.
Therefore Moon has to pass 53' 20'—459=7"i0' to complete this
zone.
    For finding out the balance of the dasa at birth, note only
balance of the star to be covered. It is 78 20'=',40',
    The star Rohini extends from 40° to 53* 20'. This zone is
ruled by Moon, it has been allotted 10 years, out of the 120
years of Vimshoddhari dasa, 7* 20' or 440' are to be passed.
     Each star extends for 13"-70' or 800'. It means that 800' of
Rohfni=10 years of Moos dasa. If only 440' !s left, then the
balance of Moon dasa at the time c" birth=440-^500 and the
result is to be multiplied by 10 years.

if--, ^oo x    years = 5 years 6 months.
                                88

    These 5 years 6 mootbs are t3ie balance of Moon dasa at the
time of birth.
    For new students, a doubt mav arise whether the balance
OP 5 YEARS 6 MONTHS OF MOON DASA IS TO BE DISTRtBliTED TO ALI
THE 9 planets or how it should be done.
      In the Zodiac, 40° to 53° 20' (Nirayana system) is governed
by Moon. It is called Robini. In the total period of 120 years.
Moon rules only for 10 years. Always the dasa lord rules the
first sub period ; than the other sub periods are ru'ed by the
remaining 8 planets in the cyclic order, i.e., Moon followed by
Mars, Rahn, Guru, Sani, etc.
    Therefore In the 13* 20' or 800', the first 10/120 is governed
by Moon : tbe next 7/120 by Mars: the third sub period is ruled
by Rahu, i.e , IS/170; Jupiter governs 16/120; Saturn '9/120.
Mercury 17/120 ; Kethu 7/120 ; Sukra 20/120 and Sun 6/120.
     Mooo governs 10* Taurus to 23° 2'/ Taurus; in that Moon's
sub period extendi from 10* 00' 00' to 11° 6' 40', Mare 11° 6*
40* to 11° 53' 20' : Rahu 11* 5-.' 20' to 13° 53' 20' ; Jup H0 53'
20'to 13° 40'00': Sat. 15* 40'00* to P* 46'40 : Mcr. IP 46'
40' to It 40' 00' : Ketu 19' 40' 00' to 20* ?6' 40' ; Venus 20° 26'
40' to 22° 40' 00' and Sun 22* 40' 00' to 23® 20' 00'.
     Therefore if the birth was in 6° Rohini, it means Moon was
in it® in Taurus. Therefore Moon was transiting in the sub of
Saturn, in Rohini star ruled by Moon. Hence, at tbe time of
birth. Moon dasa, Saturn Bhukli was running—the Mercury sub
will follow—later, Ketu, Venus and lastly Sun sub in Moon dasa.
     The balance of 5 years 6 months should not be divided to all
the 9 planets. The first sub is Moon dasa Saturn sub.
                           19
    Saturn Bhukti will be j— X 10 years or 19 months.

     But Moon was not In 15* 40* where Saturn sub starts. It was
in 16®, Therefore even la Saturn sub 0* 20' has passed. Only
 I'^b' 40' is to be covered. So in this proportion, the part that is
to De covered is worked out and for the portion 17° 46' 40' minus
 16 degrees or 1° 40' 40*, the period is calculated.
    Total area of Saturn sub—,0 6' 40'.
    Portion to be covefed = l9 46' 40'.
                                8?

    For 126' 40' the period is 19 months or 1 year 7 moatbs.
    For IfcO' 40'—What is the period ?

    T. •   W|-        3:0  3
                   "---X jj-gX 19

     Therefore at the time of birth, 16 months of Saturn sub Is
to run. Then 17 months of Mercury t 7 months of Ketu and so
on. After the child completed 5 years 6 months of Moon daaa,
Mars dasa of full 7 years is to run, followed by IS years of
Rahu ; 16 years of Guru and so on.
    Calculate the sub sub perioa, called Antharas.
    Suppose one runs Venus dasa Rahu Bhukti and it is to be
sub-divided,
    Venus dasa runs for 20 years. The first 40 months are ruled
by Dasa lord Venus, the second sub is ruled by Sun for 12
months; 20 months are governed by Moon and 14 months are
governed by Mars. Next follows the sub period of Rahu In
Venus dasa. Venus rules 20 years in the total 120 years.
Rauh rules for 18 years in the total 120 year^. Therefore Venus
dasa Rahu Bhuktl is 18/120x20 years or 3 years.
     To find out the sub sub period or anthara In Rabu sub
period of 3 years.
     Imagine Rahu period is for 3 years and the first sub sub Is
to be ruled by Rahu (and not Venus dasa lord). Jupiter WHl
follow. Next Saturn governs and so on.
   These 3 years are to be divided in the same proportion
commencing from Rahu. Rabu's sub sub period or anthara In
Rabu sub period Bhukti of 3 year =
    3x18/120=^4/120 year^ months 12 days,
    Next Jup,;     3x 16/120 = 48/120 year=4 months 24 days.
                   3x19    57
    Sat, sub sub         =     year=5 months 21 days.
                                                  3
                    ijiu   120

    Mercury ,,         = j^^ear=^ E:Dontbs 3 days.

Sitnilarly, in the aime proportion, a they are allotted        for
v .-.phou: hai'i     the sab sub is to be distributed.
                               90

     Again the aub sub can be sub divided in the same propor-
tion among the nine planets which are called Shookshmas.
     Suppose one runs Venus das a, Rahu Bhukti, Jupiter anthara
and he sub divides Jupiter anthara. Venus dasa Rahu Bhukti
runs for 3 years. Jupiter anthara comtnences after Rahu anthara
of 5 months 12 days are over—Jupiter anthara is to run for 4
months and 24 days or 144 days.
    If the total period is 120, then Jupiter has 16 out of 120 •
then Saturn has 19 out of 120, Budha (Mercury) has 17 out of
120 and so on.
    Suppose in a public limited concern, there are 9 shareholders
and the shareholder Jupiter has 1<> shares, Saturn 19 Mercury
17, Ketu 7, and so on. Suppose 144 is the profit. How will
you distribute it? It is done, in the proportion in which each
holds the shares.
     Similarly the 144 days are to be distributed. The propor-
tion in which it is distributed is constant. Therefore Jupiter's
Bhookshma is 144 x 16/120 days or 19/2 days.
    Saturn's shookshma is for 144x 19/120 days or 22.8 days.
    Mercury's shookshma is for 144x17/120 days or 20.4 days,
and so on.
      Suppose you want to know the duration of a sub sub period
 of the Planet 'C in the sub period of the Planet 'B' and m the
Dasa of the Planet 'A' sn it is 'A' dasa—'B' Bhukti 'C anthara.
(a) What is the dasa period of 'A'—How many years are allotted
to *A' In the total period of 1.0 years. Say, it is 10 years and
the dasa lord is Jupiter, (h) What is the total dasa period of
the Planet 'B'. No doubt, we want to had out its sub period or
Bhukti. But, what is the number of years allotted to it ? For
example take Venus, ft Is allotted 20 years. Tnen to get the
total sub period or the duration of the Bhukti totherwise cahed
Aphara or sub period), multiply, the nuaioer of years of 'a' by
the number of years of B which is 16 x 20.
     Divide the product by 10. Then the result obtained indi-
cates the number of months of the sub pcrunt or Bhuku at 'B'
in *A'dasa. Therefore 16 x ^0=o20,
                                9i

     Dividing it by 10, you get 32.0 months i.e. 2 years 8 moaths.
 Suppose A is Rzhu and £ is Ketbu: Then Dasa of A Is
years of Rahu: Dasa of B —Kethu is 7 years. By multiplying
 18 by 7, the product obtained is 126. Dividing it by ten the
result is 12.6 mon!bs=l year 0 month and 18 days (because
0.1 month = 3 days as 1 month is taken as 30 days for easy
calculation) Or Multiply the total years of Dasa Lord, bj Bhiikti
lord and then by L So many days is the Bhukti. Next one is
to sub divide the Bhukti into Aotharas or sub sub period.
    Note the total period of sub period. Multiply it by the
number showing the total dasa penod of the planet and divide it
by )20.
     In the fiti; example in Jupiter dasa, it is found that Venus
sub period runs for 42 months. If the sub sub period of Mercury
is to be found, note down the number of years of dasa allotted to
Mercury. It is 17. So multiple 32 months by 17 and divide by
 120. This is the proportionate allotment of sub sub period to
Mercury=32 months multiplied by 17/120=68/ .5=4 months and
16 days.
    If the period of Moon is to be found then 32x10/120=0
year 2 months 20 days.
    The sub-sub period of Venus itself will be 32x20/120=0
year S months 10 days.
     If one takes Rahu dasa Kethu Bhukti which covers I year
 18 days, take it as 378 days. Then multiply by the number
which is the number of years allotted to the planet to which the
sub sub period is to De calculated and then divide by 120. If it
is to be found for Sun multiply by 6 and divide by 120 i.e.
378x6/120=18 days.
    If the sub sub period is to be found for Mars 378 x7/l?.0=
2646/120=22.0^ days.
    To avoid s.icb calculations, to save time and to be correct
and quick the following table is given.
    The abbreviaticms used are
    K—Kethu               Ma-Mars            Me—Mercury
    V—Venus               R—Rahu             y-yefrs
    S —Sun                J —Jupiter         :n numths
    M—Moon                Si—Salmn           d ucs
          1
              S-SS-Sy^C-CL"                                                           n
                                                                                      Ci
                          Cfl                               a       §3
     g                    aor                                       S 5"              CP0
                                                            IAtaP                     <?        (•
              ZZIZIZZZ'6a
                           -■♦                              r»      pi t>
o    g-                                                     o
D.   m                     o*                                                         o"
                           o*                                       S|

-J •<         £M*-7'S£tn<^                                  5"!                   2S>
                                                            m                     C. a u
^ S                                                         H
                                                            X                     13 =
O O.                                                        c        3 1

                                                                     M           ? TJ
pj 1 : K S ^ ^ # i S ^ «                                    ■**                  0 2 Bfl
O     i   o         »                                       m        *•*
   tj . ^ ^  U> Lmi   K> "                                  2:
O Oi^t *> oa Nf i3i A Ohtog                                 C                    p-2-S3
afc                                                         i/i      K>
                                                                     O           tt w
              ooooo                      OOOOft.                                 Cu  — 3.
                                                                                 to *
                                1
01 <<         <^Sg ^?'S£tc                                          •va
                o     »                                     (A              1
                                                            c        *3         M ty» ^
o 3                                                         X                   o.Pi       5
                                                                                » p e3 ^BP 5;
                            I-*     N-   M    ^ *                    to                    IT
o «•                                     ^moooo.
                                                                     *.           V5 ^
i ^                         «                     m         £
                                                            O                     sto rt ?
                                                                                         cr
o B           o>ai^"'cSJS                         *4CJB     O                      g B 5'
                                                            z        N»
                                                                     K»
o fr          OOOQO o o                           e o b                            B B "'

•J *<         gw-CWS^^JOS                                            Uk
                      a            PP                                l—*          in|
                                                                                  » CT -'
                  ^      >-* t-1 ^                          1
o B            A. ^   •—                                                          2» -w   w
                    M              hJ .                     </l      M
                                                                     Ui            O*w 3- S'
o B.          O0iO-4-J teakOO-JCL                                                  S 3
                                                                            1      <Ji
                                                                     ov            £ >
£ M           B                          ft                 7>                            ?
                                                            >                      p*^5
                                                                                   CT 2<» s
                                                                                          X.
o S           tJ   oo   O   OiKJ         o ^ «! M g         X       1<-*
O O.          •—                         f—  M w            c        Jk.
              to   O    A   O «
                              6D         tBO>^Ik»ft
                                                                            1     O
                                                                                  0      *T3
i ^             •                             o             c        •                 <f£
                                         1—   K>wl^         ■0                      ^  -p"
                                                                                   < 5 SB
o s           oowOv                 M    —    -JO ■-" g     s™        <T\
                                                            H
                                                            rn        M             PP W BP
o &           *£   «Om              o <7>     »   h> " ft                         f 9* S
              Mfaggw-i-fijggi                               M        00            s>
s ^               »           n                             >                      &a
                                                                                   'n c JJ
                                                                                         c
              WV>>a*k^^Wh-»WU*'                             -4
o B           o        ^ oo w sjog                          Cf      •-4           ■3 P cr
                                                            7!       K>            CO. &
                                                                                       CL^<»
o ft                                                        Z        CTy 1
                                                                                    50
              M^?)3;gw<Kg;                                  3       ^s©
- ^                 m       o                               (U                     5C ^ ?St
                                                            7J       00           5A /» o*      J11
o B           ro^jO •— -j o   a                             O                     1 5^2
                                                            C
                                                            w                      cr pa cr     1
(■-) O*
HOW TO MAKE USE OF KRISHNAMURH
EPHEMERIS

     Sidereal time Is given for 5-30 p.m. L.M.T. to 82* 30' East*
(Tbe same time 5-30 p.m. is also I.S.T. to that longitude). All
along we referred and noted down the sidereal time at previous
ocoa 12O'clock G.M.T. from Raphael Ephemetis; calculated the
Sidereal time at previous noon at tbe place of birth. (If the place
of blrlh Is East Longitude, we deducted from the Sidereal time at
12 noon C.M.T. the value obtalocd by multiplying the Bast Long,,
by 2/3 sees; we added to the Sidereal time at 12 oooo G.M.T.
the value obtained by multipMng the West Long, by 2/3 sees.
Thus we obtained tbe Sidereal time at 12 noon at tbe locality of
birtb).
     Here, one is to note down the Sidereal time given for 82° 30'
East for 5-30 p.m. For birth Id India one need not deduct if the
long, of place of birth Is above 82* 30' or add if the ld» of
place of birtb 1* lets than 82* 30'. Why? After all the longitude
of India is between 70aB to 9D<>E. Even If the longitudinal
difference It 12° between the locality of birth and 82* W East tbe
correction that wc have to give will be a maximum of seconds
only. At none can note the time of birth correct to a second and
the movement of the Zodiac Is on an average 1/60 of a degree for
every four secondt. this calculation to correct can be conveniently
omitted.
     Suppose one It born on I-L1-1018 at 10 p.m. another at
9 a.tn. on 10-11-1918 both In Calcutta, third Is born at Madras on
5-11-1918 at 8 p.m. and tbe fourth is born at 5 p.m. at Bombay
on 8-IMV18.
    Fx. I,   Date of birth 1-11-1918.
             Time of birth 10 p.m. I.S.T.
             Place of birth Calcutta 88-24 £
             Difference between I.S.T, and L.M.T,
             88-24 minus 82.30 = 5* 54'
                                 94

              Foi every degree multiply by 4
              Then 23 mts, 36 sees, la to be added to I.S.T, to get
                  L.M.T.
              So time of birth=10 p.m.+23 mts. 36 sees™
                  10-23-36 p.m. L.M.T.
     As the time of birth is in p.m, and above 5-30 p.m. take the
Sidereal time given for the same date. (If it is in a.m. or between
 12 noon and 5-30 p.m. L.M.T. take the sidereal time given for
the previous date 5-30 p.m. L.M.T.)
    Sidereal time at 5-30 p.m. on ]-l 1-1918 as is given in
Kmhoamimi Epbemeris is 20 hrs. 9 mts. 51 sees, (correction for
East Long. i.e. 5* 54'negligible—So, omit.)
Interval between previous 5-30 p.m. and Time of birth In
L.M.T.= 10-23-36 minus 5-30                + 4-53-36
Correction for the interval at 10 sees, per hr.      +   0— C—49
Sidereal time at the time of birth                   = 25— 1—16
    Deduct 24 hours.
    Then sidereal time at the moment of birth™ [ h.'. 1 mt, 16 sees,
    Ex. 2.   Datcof birth 10-11-1918.
             Time of birth 9 a.m.
             Place of birth Calcutta 88° 24tE.
             Djf, bet. t.S.T. and L.M.T. =23 mts, 36 sees.
             Therefore Time of birth in L.M.T. = 9-23-36 a.m.
             Previous 5-30 p.m. means 5-J0 p.m. of 9-11-1918.
             Sidereal time at 5-30p,m.oD9-ll-18=20hrs. 41 rots.
             24 Sees. (No correction for East long, is needed.)
   Add interval between previous 5-30 p.m. and actual time of
b^h in L.M.T.                                  + 15-53-36
    Add correction for Interval at 10 Sees.
        per hour.                                   +    0— 2—39
    Therefore, sidereal time at the moment
        of birth                                    — 36-37-39
    Deduct one circle—24 hours.
    Therefore Sidereal time at birth, = 12 hrs. 37 rats. 39 Sees.
                                   95

    Ex.    3.   Date of birth 5—11—1918,
                Time of birth 8 p.m. ! S.T. = ^-31 p.m L.M.T.
                place of birth. Madras fO-i5E.
                Sidereal lime at previous 5-30 p.m. on the same date
                     5—11 — 19 8 20 hrs. 23 mts. 37 sees.
                (No correction for 2" Longitudinal difference be
                    given at 2/3 seconds per degree.)
     Add interval between previous 5-.0 p m. and time of birth
in L.M f.                                       + 2-21-00
    Add correction for interval                         -t-    0— 0—24

                             Add                               2-21-24
                       :
    So, the sidereal t me at birtl) = 22 hrs, 47 mts. 0i Sec,

    Ex.    4,   Date of birth. 8—11 — 1918.
                Time of birth, 5 p.m. l.S T.
                Place of birth Bombay 72-54E.
    Time of birth in L.M.T. = 4 hrs 21 rats 36 Sees, p m. L.VLT,
    Sidereal time at previous
          5-30 p.m. i.e. at 5-30 p.m.             hrs.        rots.   Sees,
          on?—11—1918.                             20          33      30
    Interval between previous
    5-30 p.m and birth time in L.M.T.             22           51      36
    Correction for interval at OSecs per 1 boor 0               3      49

                                                   19          28      55

     After thus finning out sidereal time at the moment of birth,
refer to Table of Houses and calculate the post!ion of Meridians,
lltb, I ilth, 2nd, 3rd cusps and ascendant.
     As regards position of planets, note down the time of birth
in I.S.T. (Hereafter we do not want the L.M T.) Find out the
difference between previous 5-30 pm. and birth time in I.S.T,
Take the position i-f planets for previous 5-30 p m. and the
iairaedtale next 5-30 p.m. to follow. Calculate the motion of
planets in 24 hours. Work out for the interval between previous
                                96

5-30 p.m. and birtb time in I.S.T, Add (his figure 1o previous
position for pJancts in direct motion. Deduct this figure to pre-
vious position for planets and nodes in retrograde motion. Then
you get the position of planets at the moment of birth.
    Take Ex. 3.    Born at 8 p.m. I.S T, on 5—11—1918.
    So note the position of planets at S-Jf p.tn.   on 1 —11—1918
and 6—11 —1918 and work out.
    If you take example ), born at 10 p m. I.S.T. on I —11 —1918,
take the planetary position given for 1 — 11 — 1918 and ?-l!■ 1918,
    For Ex. 2. Born at 9 a.m. I.S.T. on 10-1 N19i8, take the
position of planets at 5-30 p.m. on 9-11-19J8 and 10-11-1918.
    For Ex, 4 For birth at 5 p.m. I.S.T, on 8-11-1918, take the
position of planet# given for 7-111918 and 8-ll-l9i8 and
calculate.

What Is a Year I
    Some astrologers take a year as equivalent to 360 days while
a few others take it as ■'651 days for purposes of calculation.
Which is correct, and which is to be followed ?
     No explanation U available in any work of astrology as to
how the sages had assigned 6 years to Sun. 10 to Moon, 7 to Mars,
and so on. But all have not definitely stated whether one is to
take      day* or 360 days for purposes of calculation.
     So a doubt arises as Hindus adopt five dififereot Manama or
methods for finding out the commencement of a year, its
duration and its end, which synchronises with the beginning of
the succeeding year. They are as under :
     1. Soufa Manam : This year commences from the time Sun
enters the Nirayatia Mesha (Aries) and runs through until the
Sun completes the thirtieth degree of Mecna (Pisces), and Is
about to enter the sign Mesha again. This is around 3ti5i days.
     2. Chandra Manam\ This year commences from the Sukla-
pakstia Prathumai Thithi of Cbaithra month (I.e., the first thithi
after the New Moon P-mgum month according to Souramanam)
extends over nearly 354 days and ends when the New Moon in
Panguni motilh is over.
                                91

    3. Savana Kianant: A day Is the interval of time between
successive occasions of Sun rise, Savana Mauam year has
exactly 360 such days.

     4. Nakshathra Manam; The interval of time between
successive occasions of Moon's enrry into Aswini Nakshathra, Is
called Naksbatbra Mana month. Twelve such months make one
Nakshatbra Mana year. This works out to nearly 34 days.

     5. Bharhasapaihyam: This year represents the duration
of time laken by Jupiter (Guru or Bribaspatbi) to transit in a
sign This, on an average, works out to 361 days.

     Thus, there are five different years, and each is followed for
different purposes.

     For calculating the Udu Dasa system, one has to follow only
Soura Manam. Mantreswarar, in Paladheepika. has mentioned
that one completes a year only when the Sun again enters
into the same longitude, as it was at the time of the birth
of the native. That Is, Mantreswarar takes a year, as the inter-
val of time taken by Sun lo leave any one position in the Zodiac
and again reach the same position. Tn other words, the year is
reckoned as the time taken by the Sun to revolve exactly once in
its apparent path, the ecliptict Mantreswarar says :

               AsstJFt                 arfcWMH+J I
        atiqrw: nfcl                           sw^wrt: n

and is of firm opinion that Soura M mam system alone is to be
followed for Udu dasa Phala Nirnayam

     Various commentators and authors of books have explained
that Soura Manam is sued for the calculations of Plnda Ayurd-
haya Dasa, Ayurdhaya Vibhaga, Prayaschitba, Sathra (Yagaml^
etc: Hence, only Soura Manam, i.e., year made up of 3651: days
alone is to be adopted.

    For convenience and for easy calculation of sub sub periods
360 days are taken, as the difference is oegltgible But 365idays
must be taken.
     la the original chart, so far worked out we have to find out
the Da?3 balance at the time of birth from the Nirayana Position
of Moon. Each star is U'-Zo' in longitude; i e. 360' Is divided
equally for Lt stars. Here the birth star (Jsnma Nakshatra) is
hravana which is ruled by Mood and its total Das^i period is 10
years. If the birth had taken place at the start of Sravanam,
then the balance of Moon Dasa at birth would be 10 years. As
the birth had taken place after Moan bad advanced $*-8r in
Sravanam, it has to move only b'-l2' more to complete its transit
in that star and enter Into Avittam, The period which has
            go g'
passed —              10 years=6 years 1 mouth 6 days. So you
deduct this from 10 years to find out the txac; period of Moon
Dasa to be enjoyed during the native's infancy commencing
from the time of his birth.

                10 YEARS 0 MONTH 0 DAY
               — 6 YUARS i MONTH DAYS
              = 3 YEARS 10 MONTHS 24 DAYS

    Now you have arrived at the figure, which you have to write
below the Nirayaoa rast and amsa chakratn :

 'Fotlunt".
   The last item to be calculated for a birth is the posilloi ■
"Foriuna"

    This Is obtained by adding the longitude of Moon and Lagna
(Ascendant) and by deducting the longitude of Sun as follows ;
Longitude is measured, always from Aries 0° (Mesba 0a)

         Add Long of Asc                             228—48
         fo Long of Moon                             311—23
         and deduct Longitude of Sun                  53-50


         As it Is above 360° deduct
         Therefore Fortuna Is at
                  This is Sayana Position

           Nirayana Position is 13'—6f Cancer

                   (F stands for Fortuna)


            Jupiter                 Sun 0* 35'
             16°'4'      Ven 2°-3l jMerc. (Ri
                                   1 4°-42'

                                                  Aabu
                                                  0*-l9'
                                                 F. 13B-6'
                               RASI
           Sst 7SB-34'       CHAKRAM
             Moon
             Ig'-B'                              Ura 7®-S5
              KLetu
             o*-ir
                                     Lagna
                                     23 *-3 3'
                                    Nep. (R)
                                     20®-47'




                           Venus                  Moon
              Man         Neptuae     L&gna       Uranus
                            (R)


            Mercury                                Rahu
             (R)
                            NAVAMSAM
             Sun
             Ketbu



                                                  Saturn



    At the time of birth, balance of Moon Dasa is 3 years
10 months and 24 days.
                                 100

       When, one Is to work out a horoscope the details necessary
are:
       (a) Place of birth (to know the Latitude and Longitude of
           the locality of the birth)
       (b) Time of birth and
       (c) Date, tnontb and year,
           (Sex and name also preferred).
     (a) If the place of birth la a village, note approximately
how far away it is from the nearest towns for which Latitu-
des and Longitudes arc given. As roughly 71 miles is represented
by 1°. one can calculate the exact Latitude and Longitude.
     (bi Time of birth may be given in Indian Standard Time.
Then, the methods so far explained can be followed without any
calculation prior to working out the horoscope.
     But if one gives a chart already cast by a person and wants
you to verify whether it is correct and if the astrologer who had
already erected the mip has sitnplv msntloned that ihe birth took
place at 'x* Ghatis (Mi//gofsp and *-f           fVinadl, Pul) after
Sun rise then It needs some calculation to convert It to Indian
Standard Time.
      A day to the Hindus commences at the time of Sun rise and
ft is over by the next Sun rise. The interval ts just around 60
Ghatis. Anyhow, take that the interval Is exactly 60 Ghatis,
       Then a day = 24 hours              60 Ghatis.
       Therefore = 1 hour              —     Ghatis,
                     1 Ghati           = 60 Vikatis.
                     1 hour            = 7} Ghatis=.150 Vikatis,
                     1 hour            — 60 miDutes=150 Vikatis
                     So I mt.          =     Vikatis.
       Therefore     1 hour            _. 2^ Ghatis.
                     1 mt.             = 2^ Vikatis.
                      I Ghati          = 3/5 hoar=24 minutes
                       and I Vikati    = 2/5 mt=t>,4 mt.
    Note from the table where the time of Sun rise h published
for North Latitudes. Time of Sua rise (s given in Local Mean
Time. Please refer to page 9K Calculate the Indian Standard
Time,
                                  101

Sun rise at various Northf.kn Lathudes in Local Mean Time

Month &           10*       IS*      20*     ;S*     30*     3S*
 Dlle           H Mti.   K. Mti    H. Mti   H. Mia. H. Mis. H. Mt

Jan.       1    6 17     6 2S       6 35    6 45    6 56    7 08
          11    6 20     6 29       6 38    € 48    6 57    7 09
          21    6 22     6 30       6 38    6 47    6 56    7 06
Feb         1    6 23    6 29       6 36    6 44    6 31    7 00
          11     6 21    6 :6       6 32    6 38    6 44    6 51
          21     6 18    6 22       6 26    6 31    6 35    6 41
Mar.       1     6 13    6 18       6 21    6 24    6 27    6 31
          11     6 10    6 11       6 13    6 15    6 16    6 18
          21     6 04    6 04       6 04    6 04    6 04    6 04
Apr        1     5 38    5 57       5 53    3 33    5 51    S 48
          11     5 52    5 49       S 46    5 43    3 39    5 35
          21     5 47    5 43       5 38    5 33    3 28    s 22
May.       1     5 43    5 38       5 32    5 25    5 18    5 10
          n      3 40    5 33       S 26    5 18    S 10    5 00
          21     5 38    3 30       5 22    5 13    3 04    4 33
J'JNE.     1     5 38    3 30       5 20    5 10    4 59    4 47
          11     3 38    S 30       5 20    5 09    4 58    4 45
          21     5 40    s 30       5 21    5 10    4 59    4 46
July             5 42    3 31       5 21    5 13    5 02    4 49
          11     3 45    5 36       5 27    5 17    5 06    4 54
          21     3 47    s 39       5 31    5 22    5 12    5 00
Ado.       1     5 40    5 42       5 35    5 26    5 18    5 08
          11     5 SO    S 46       5 38    5 31    5 24    5 16
          21     5 31    5 46       3 41    5 35    5 30    5 23
Sep.       1     5 51    5 48       5 44    5 40    5 36    5 32
          11     3 50    5 43       5 46    5 44    5 42    5 39
          21     5 49    3 49       5 48    5 48    5 47    5 46
OCT         1    3 49    3 50       5 51    3 52    5 53    6 34
          11     5 48    5 50       3 53    5 56    5 58    6 02
          21     3 49    i 53       3 57    6 01    6 05    6 10
Nov        I    5 SO     5 55       6 01    6 07    6 13    6 20
          U     5 53     5 59       6 06    6 14    6 21    6 30
          21    5 57     6 05       6 12    6 20    6 29    6 39
Dec.            o 0<     6 10       6 16    6 28    6 38    6 49
          11    « 06     6 13       6 24    6 34    < 43    4 97
          21    6 IS     6 2T       6 30    6 40    6 51    7 04
                               102

Sunset at various Northern Laiivodes in Local Mean Time

Month &          10*     15*      20*    25'           30'    35'
 Date           H Mti   H Mil    H. Mm. H. Mt*       H, Mts. H mU

Jan         1   5 50    5 41     5 32       5 22     5 1!   4 59
          11    5 55    5 46     5 38       5 28     5 18   5 07
          21    6 00    5 53     5 45       5 36     5 27   5 17
Feb.       1    6 05    5 58     5 52       5 44     5 36   5 28
          11    6 08    6 03     5 57       5 51     5 45   5 38
          21    6 10    6 07     6 02       5 57     5 53   S 48
Mar.       1    6 10    6 07     6 05       6 01     5 58   5 55
          U     6 11    6 09     6 OS       6 06     6 05   6 03
          21    6 n     6 11     6 11       6 11     6 11   6 12
Apr        1    6 ii    6 12     6 14       6 16     6 18   6 20
          11    6 n     6 13     6 17       6 20     6 24   6 28
          21    6 ii    6 16     6 20       6 25     6 30   6 36
May        I    6 12    6 17     6 23       6 30     6 37   6 44
          11    6 13    6 20     6 27       6 35     6 43   6 33
          21    6 15    6 23     6 31       6 40     6 49   7 00
June.      1    6 13    6 26      6 35      6 45     6 56   7 08
          11    6 20    6 30      6 39      6 50     7 01   7 13
          21    6 23    6 33      6 42      6 53     7 74   7 17
July.      I    6 24    6 34         6 43   6 54     7 05   7 18
          11    6 25    6 34         6 43   6 54     7 m    7 16
          21    6 25    6 33         6 41   6 51     7 00   7 12
Atjo.      1    6 23    6 30         6 37   6 45 ■   6 54   6 04
          n     6 20    6 26         6 32   6 39     6 46   6 54
          21    6 15    6 20         6 25   6 31     6 36   6 42
Sep.       1    6 09    6 13         6 16   6 20     6 24   6 28
          11    6 03    6 05         6 07   6 10     6 12   6 14
          21    5 57    5 57         5 58   5 58     5 59   6 00
Oct.       1    3 51    5 50         5 49   5 48     5 47   5 46
          11    5 45    5 42         5 40   5 37     5 35   5 32
          21    5 41    5 37         5 33   5 28     5 24   5 19
Nov.       1    5 37    3 32         5 26   5 20     5 14   5 02
          11    5 35    5 29         5 22   5 15     5 07   4 58
          21    5 35    5 27         5 20   5 11     5 02   4 52
Dec.        1    5 36   5 28         5 19   5 10     5 00   4 19
           11    3 40   5 31         5 22   5 11     5 01   4 49
           31    3 44   5 35         5 26   5 15     5 04   4 52
                                 103

     From the Local mean Time deduct the product obtained by
multiplying the Longitude by 4 and add 5 hours 30 minutes. Or
to the Local mean time add 5 hours 30 ininutes and then deduct
Longitude multiplied by 4 minutes. The result will be in l.S.T,
    There will be births between midnight and the next day
dawn, A few astrologers used to mention as 46 Ghatis, 30, 56
or 39 Ghatia 39 Vikatls and so on.
     In those cases, they also give the previous date and day to
the actual calendar date and day used for civil purposes.
     Suppose a child is born at 3 a.m. after Sunset on
31-12-1965 and before the Sun rise on Happy New Year day on
1-1-1966 at a Latitude of 30s and Longitude 80°. It is found
that the Sun rises at 6-56 a.m. Local Time. As the locality is
80* East then the G.M.T. is 6-56 a.m. (80x4'j = 6-56 nslaus
5-20= 1-36 a.m.
    As Indian Standard Time is always 5^ hours in advance to
Q.M.T., the Indian Standard time will be 5-30-(-1.36 (G.M,T.)=
7 hours 6 mts. a.m.
     Therefore Sun rises at 6 56 a.m. L.M.T. on 31-12-65 at
80oE and 30I'N. It meaos that the Sun rises at 7-06 a.m. I.S.T.
on 3 i 12-65 at 80° E.
    So the interval between the time of birth 1 e. 3 a.iai, LS.T,
and the time of Sun rise which is 7-06 a m. I,S'T.= 19 hra.
54 mts,=45 Ghatis (19x2^ Ghatis-i-54x2^ Vikatis".
    The astrologer will usually write 49 Gbaiis 45 Vikatis after
Sun rise on Friday 31-12-65.
    Actually date of birth is 1-1-1966 as the midnight has passed
and the New Year is born.
     Some astrologers write Friday and also 1-1-66. Such confu-
sions do arise in many cases. Hence the students should follow
that method which is clear. So one Is to write that a person is
horn at 3 a.m. on 31-12-65/i-l-b6 on Friday/Saturday. Then
there will be no doubt.
     If - he time of birth Is given in Ghatis and Vikatis, convert to
Indian Standard time to find out the position of planets and
Local Mean T ime to v ork out for the sidereal Time at the tim#
of birth wlrich is n -ctssary to ascertain the 12 cusps of Houses,
                                 104

    Lei one boro 'cope be crccfcd. Let us work out the chart of
a youn|St person who is handling the course of Astrology In
Madras in my aL ence from l^dO. Particu^fs of Birth ;
    Place of birth: -Tiruvarur.
    Time of birth    2-34 p.m. 1 S T.
    Date of birth             —Wednesday,
    Tiruvarur     10°—4t>'N. 9"—40 E.
    Time of birth    2-34 p m I S T,
    2-34 LS.Tp i4-34 minus 5-30=9-4 a.m. G.M.T,
    Longitude 79* 40' r=4 iiijautes.
    790-4'x4=318 <10=5-18-40.
    Hence L M.T.^9-4-i- ^-18 40=2-22-40 p.m.
    Time of Birth 2-34 p.m. I.S T, = 2-27-40 p m. L.M.T.
     (As the time of birth ia 2-22-40 p.m. L.M.T., take the
sidereal time given for 11-6-3 4.)
    Sidereal time at Prev ous noon on 13-6-1734              5—24—26
     Deduct correction for East, Long at 2/3
         sees, per degtte 70.4jx 2/3                         0— 0—53
     Add interval between previous nnoo and
        the time of birth L.M.T.                        + 2—22—40
     Add correction for interval at 10 sees per
         hour                                           + 0— 0—24

     Therefore sidereal rime at the time of birth
     at 10-46 N & 79-40 E on 13-6-1934                        7—46—'7

      Taking the (abk of Houses, and referring to the page where
 the cusps of houses are f irnishcd for 11* N, it will be seen that
 the sidereal lime at the vine of birth i e. 7 hrs 46 mts 3? sees,
 falls fce'v.cen the two timings found fn the book. They a-e
 7 hours 41 mis. 34 sees and 7 hours 47 mis. 47 sees.
     The position of cusps gu-n r.re copied down.
 Sidereal dote    lOth     Htb         12th     Asc    2nd      3rd
    43—34          24°     24°         26'     250-49* 26°      25'
                 Cancer    Leo     V;igo      Libra Scorpio    Sagi
 1—47 - 47        ;5*      26'      27'         26-51  27*      26'
                               105

    Cusp* 10. 13. 2 and 3 have nsoved 60' la 4 mts 13 8ec8=253
secooda; Cuip 11 has moved UO'. The Ascendant has moved
by 63 iccooda.

    By working out the proportion one will find that at 7'46.
    37 icc.

    lOtb cuap ia at 24'—43' lo Cancer-Karkata
    12th cuap at ib'—43' In Virgo-Kanoi
    2nd cuap ii at 26°—43' In Scorpio-Vmcbika
    3rd cusp is at 25'—43' in Sagittarius-Dhanus
    11th cusp i# at 25*—76' in Leo-Simha
    Ascendant it at 26' —37' i.e. Libra-Thulatn
    Adding ISO* to each.
    4th cusp 24'—43' in Capricorn-Makaram
    5th cusp 25°—26' in Aquahus-Kumba
    6th cusp 26'—43' In Piscea-Mcena
     7tb cusp 26°—37' to Afies-Mesha
     8th cusp 36*—43' in Taurus-Riahaba
     9tb cusp 25'—43' in Gemini-Mithuna

    Ayanatnsa for the year 1934 was 22'—SO1; therefore Nlrayana
Position of Cusps is at under.
     1.   26''—37' Libra miDus 22''—50'    3'—47' Tbulam
     2.   26*—43'Scorpio                   3*—53' Vnschika
     3.   25'—43'Sagittarius               2*~53' Dhaaus
     4.   24'—43' Capricorn                 t'—53' Makara
     3.   25*—26'Aquarius                   2*—36' Kumbha
     6.   26*—43' Pisces                    3*—53' Meeoa
     7.   26°—37' Aries                     3*-4V Mesha
     8.   26'—41'Taurus                     3'-53' Risbaba
     9.   25'—4 / Gemtoi                    2'—53' Mitbuna
    10.   2V1—43' Cancer                    I'-SV Karkaia
    11.   25*-26'Leo                        2*~36' Simha
    12.   26*-43'Virgo                      3°—oi' Kanni
                                      106

                  Pisc«        Aiicl       Taurus    Gemini
                  Meena       Mesha       Riahaba    Mithuna
                 6(ti cusp | 7tha c-;»p   kth eusp   9ih cusp
                   3*-5J' | i -4r           i'-Si'     2'-5i'
                 Aquarlui i                            Cancer
                  kumba I                             Karksta
                 Sih cusp                            lllth cusp
                   2*- .ip' |    NIRAYANA               r-53'
                                    RASl
                Capricorn |                              Leo
                 Makaram                               Si rub a
                 4lh cusp :                          llth cusp
                   r-33'                               2*-36'
                  Sagittarius Scorpio i Lagna
                                          Libra    Virgo
                    Dbanul Vnschtka Thuta i Kanni
                   3rd cusp | 2nd cusp Ascendant i2tb cusp
                                       1
                                         JH#       3'-53'
      T tieti. take the Epbenteris ot the jear i9J4.
      Ihcu turn over the page l.L
     As the birth was at l,-34 p,in. on 13-6 — 1934, note down
the position of planets given in the epheraeris for 12 noon
Greenwich time whtch means 5-JO a.in. Indian Standard Time
on 12-6 1934 nnd 13 6 19 34, so that a) the motion of the planets
for 24 hours httweMi U-6-34. 3-34 a.oi. and 13-6-1934, 5-3ua.in.
enn be worked out and
     (.b) the proportionate motion of the planet for 21 hours 4
minutes can be calculated. This result is to be added to the
previoci iGj'i t '2-6 34) position to the planets in direct motion
.md the results is to be deducted from the position of planets on
12-6-34 if the planet on 12-6-34 was then retrograde. Always to
Sun nnd Moon add; to Rahu and Kcthu, deduct.

            Position on ifw 2 days                         Propar-      Actual
 /'Uuie'    12-6-1924   I 'M 6-1924          DiJ/erenve    ffonoft'     Posi-
                                                           ma} ion       tion

Sun        70^-49' Gem     il'-ib' Gem       4- 0*-57'    + CMC         2r.40'
Mood       IS'-iT Gem        r-22' Can      .. 1 i*- 0'   fa to*- -r     5'-5*'
Mari         6'-38' Gem      T^O' Gem       „   0M2'      SI O-'-JT'     r-w
Mercury    J5e-9* Can               Lan          l'- 2'       O'-M'     Jb'-  3'
Jupiter    GMf      Lib    n*-;?' III).     ..  d'- o-        0°- 0'     3C-1T'
Venus      ■ Ie-13' Fan    1Tau                  l". 9'   a*   t". 0'   tl-.Si'
Sai urn    28'-10' Aqa     SS'-IO'  Aqu         O6- 0'        O6- 0'    78*-10*
ICihu      !2*-3f' Aqu     J ;o.35' Aqu     — u*. 3'          0°- J'    I7V3J'
Kcihu      fl'-SK'  I co   11'-W    Leo     — 0°. 3'          0". 3'    t20-i.V
liranui     ii0-)?' tau      0o-lH' lau     3- O3- 1'     + 0*- 0
                                                                   1*    0'-, 8'
Mtf tune    S*-4*' Vir      9V4j' Vir       ..   6°- r    ■p O - 3'      90-4i'
                                     107

    Ayananasa for the year 1934 is ll'-iO'. Therefore Nihayana
Position of planets are given below :

               Sayana                      Deduct             Mir ay ana
    Sun    2t"- 0' Gemini                  2i'- 0'      28'-50' Taurus
    Moon     5*-54' Cancer                    »>        13'- 4' Gemini
    Mars     7'-55' Gemini                   tV         M0-45' Taurus
    Merc    16"- 3' Cancer                   *«        23*-13' Gemini
    Jup     13* 07' Libra                              lO'-ZT Virgo
    Venus 12*-33' Taurus                     t«         19°-4 3* Aries
    Saturn 28°-10' Aquarius                  *8                  Aquarius
    Rahu    U*-55' Aquarius                 II         20*- 5' Capricorn
    Ketbu 12°-' 5' Leo                                 .0*- 5' Cancer
                   r
    Uranus 0*-18 Taurus                                 7". 28' Aries
                 ,
    Nep      9°-4 s' Virgo                  •1         J6'-55' Leo

     Position of Fortuna ; Longitude of Lagna                   l)}3B-47'
                      Add Longitude of Moon                      JOS'- 4'
                          Sum of Lagna and Moon                 286"-51'
                          Deduct Longitude of Sun                5(j'-50'
                          Longitude of Fortuna    = 228*- 1'
                                         = Scorpio   18'- I'

     Erect Rasi Cfaakra and insert tiic planets. Refer Navamsa
table and draw navamsa chart- Note tbe Lagna jo both tbc
charts.

           Uranus Mara      Moon
           7'-28' i4*-45* 13'-4'                  | Mercury   Man    Uranus
           Venn*    Sun     Merc
           19'-43' 78°-SO' 23'-13'
 Ssturo                     Ketbu                                    Jupiter
  3 MO'                     20'-5'                                    JUbu
               RAS1                                  NAVAMSA
             CHAKRA                                   CHAKRA
  R«bu                     Neptune         Moon
  20*-S'                                   Keiu

           Fortune Ass.    Jupiter              Aac.                 Venua
            ISM' 8*-47'    iQ'-ir      Fortuna Saturn                 Sun
                                                                    Neptuoe
                                 10S

Calculate dasa balance
     Moon at the lime or birth was in IS0-*' in Arudhra Star
which extends from 6°-40' Gemini to ZO^-O' Gemini. Therefore
the portion to be covered by Moon is b'-iS' =-= 416'.
    Rahu has 18 years of dasa.     The longitude of a star li 800'.
    The balance of Rabu dasa at binb,

    =         >( 18 = 9 years 4 months 9.6 days.
        oUU
     So take It as 9 years 4 moruns 10 days. Then work out a
table sbowlag when a particular period starts and when it ends
so that it will be a ready reference table so that while Dffcriog
prediction, one can avoid this laborious working for every event.


    Dasa          ButlKTt     Anthaha         From          To
       ASPECTS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
    While cxamloing a horoscope, various dements have to bt
considered, analysed in detail and combiued together with logical
judgment. Once the fundaruentals. namely the characteristics of
the planets, the nature of the twelve zodiacal signs, the matter*
governed by the different Houses (Bhavaa), the quality of the
aspects etc., have been well comprehended, then the propel
analysis and application will assist the astrologer to assess the
results accurately. Practice makes one proficient to apply
properly such rules and dicta.
      Each house by itself signifies certain affairs in one chart, A
planet placed In a house modifies and activates the matten
embraced by the house :—according to the planet's inherent
nature, Its Adhipathyatn (ownership of houses in the horoscope)
and its occupation. The sign and the star are the containers.
The planet is the content. Milk in red glass tumbler will appear
red like blood. But its colour changes due to that of the cod*
tamer. Similarly, the results of the planets will get modified or
altered. Further the results and indications are modified by the
stsf ngth and quality of the aspect received by the planet. The
aspecting planet decides the change In the nature of the result,
and, the cause for such a change and the source which brings
about such a change. The planet receiving the aspect produces
such results which It indicates.

What is an aspbct ?
      An aspect Is "an angle formed on the Earth by the beams of
two planets" (Kepler). The term Is employed, in Astrology, to
refer tq angular distance measured in degree and naloute of celes-
tial longitude between two points la the zodiac. According to
Westerners, aspects are formed between two piaaets, or between
a plaaet and a point in the horoscope, as for Instance the cusp
of a bouse (bhava), say Ascendant M.C., etc. 'Cusp' may be
defined as the edge of a house, i.e., the exact beginolog of a house
(which is also the end of the previous house) rekoned In degree
and minute of celestial longitude. It Is established that some
angular distances do produce results which are effective,
     A planet is considered to be in aspect with another planet or
a sensitive point in the zodiac only wheq it is from the p'.iuot 01
the sensitive point by a certain longitudinal distance.
                                no

     Planets arc ever moving in their orbits in the zodiac and so
 aspects may be formed between them and the difference in their
 longitudes will form a parricular aspect. That is, at some time,
in some part of the zodiac, two planets may be transiting at a
particular distance from each other and certain angles are formed
upon the earth bv such relationship. It has been found that
these angles exert some influence on those individuals, animates
or inanimates who are receptive to such vibrations by reason
of the fact that, at their birth, vibrations of like nature were in
operation.

The Hindu Theory
     According to the Hindu gages the aspects {drishties) should
be counted from sign to sign, irrespective of the position of the
planets in the sign and the relative distance between two planets.
Further, the aspects themselves arc neither decided as favourable
nor unfavourable considering the longitudinal distance between
them. They depend mainlv upon the natural relationship
between the planets in aspect Also constder whether they
are malefic or benefij by nature and by lordship adhipathyam).
The aspect of a malefic planet is said to be bad and the aspect
of a benefic is considered to be advantageous.
     Suppose a planet Is located In any degree in the sign Metha
(Aries . Then Rishaba (TaurusHs said to be the second from
that planet, Mithuoa (Gemini) the third, etc., in that order, ff
a birth falls, say, in Simha Leoi lagoa, then Kanya (Virgo) is
the second house to that native, Thulam (Libra, is the third, and
80 CD.
     The ancients hjve declared that all planets aspect the 7th
sign counted from the signs occupied by them to a full extent
Suppose two planets arc placed in oppoi itc suns of the zodiac, as,
for example, Jupiter in Mithuna (Gomlni) and Mercury in
Dhanus (Sagdtarius), they are in the 7th aspect to each other,
no matter what the d'stance may be between the two,
     ft Is possible that Mercury occupies the Jrd degree of Dhanus
and Jupiter the 29th degree of Mithun i when fhey would be at a
distance of 154 degrees from each other. Or Mercury mav be
posited in the 3rd degree of Mithuna m which case they would be
exactly 180 degrees away. It is thus seen that ihe distance is
                                Ill

  Icely to v&ry from anything between 150 and 180 degrees. This
/lb aspect is common to ail planets, nsraeiv the Sunt Moon,
Ma";, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury and Venus. (Uranus and
Neptune do not enter into the Hindu calcuiations at all).
     Beside the 7th aspect all planets are said to cast a quarter
glance over the 3rd and PtS bouses from the one occupied by
them, but Sofarn'r ird and /OrA aspects are stronger than even its
7th aspect. Similarly, Jupiter is full with its rays over the 5(A
and 9th homes from the one occupied by it and these aspects are
more powerful than its 7th aspect, The other planets also view
the 5th glance. Mars, la addition to its 7th aspect, looks at the
4lh and 8lh houses from ft. These 4th and 8th aspects of Marg
arc more powerful than its 7th aspect. The rest of the planet*
have only a thrcefourth aspect over the 4th and 8th houses.
     Mantreswara mentions in "Phaladeepika" (stoka 9, Adhyaya
IV) that the 7th aspect is the only one that should be declared
as most effective in all cases and not to the rest, but others are
of the view that the special aspects-of Saturn, Marslmd Jupiter
are In no way less efficacious.
     It has been further stated that planets do not aspect the
2ad, the 1 itb and the 6th houses reckoned from the one occupied
by them (Uttaru Kalamritam, sloka 17, Khanda II).
     When two planets are combined jn one house (sign), they
are taken to be in conjunction. In sloka 32, khanda IV, of Utlare"
Kalamritam, Kalidas makes it clear that a conjunction can occur
only when the planets are within the range of 12 degrees from
each other.
                            Illustration


               Saturn                       Kahu




               Lagna                       Jupiter
               Moon



                Keta                        Mara
                                            Venue
                                  112

     To the above nativity, we find that Moon, the lord of the 7th
h'-use, placed in Makara (Capricorn), aspects the 7th hctiae
Kataka (canter) from It, Therefore, when one reads the results
for the 7th house, one should lake the characteristics of Mooo
(what Moor, indicates by nature and by lordship and also by its
aspects to the 7ih house) into consideration and offer the results.
      Saturn is fn Meana (Pisces) in the third house from the
jftgnii, Saturn casts his glance over the 3rd, 7th and lOth signs
counted troni the one occupied by It, namely Rishaba (Taurus),
Kannt (Virgaj and Hhanus tSagittafios), It aspects, by its 7th
aspect. Vrnur- sod Mars posited in Kanni Virgo) and, by its
 Ittth aspect. Kithu placed in Dhanus Sagittarius).
     Whenever a planet aspects a house and the planet or p'aocts
ocnipymg the s'tid house, then one should combine the results
indicated hv the house under considciatioo, the sign in which
the house is and the planet or planets posited therein by nature
and hy lordship and above all the lords of the nakshatra and \uh
purlieu uf the nakshaira in which ihe planti was. The resuli-jut
mdicaiions should be modified by the strength and quality of the
aspect thrown, what the aspecting planet shows by its nature and
by lordship.
     Reft rring to (he chart taken for illustration, it is noticed that
Jupiter, lord of 3 and 1 occupying the Stb house Sinilia (J.eo)
aspects, by its 5th aspect, Dhaaus iSagittariusy 12th house and
Kcthu placed in it. The l?ih bouse Dhanns is also aspected by
Mi-irs, lord of 4 and 11, by the ith as poet and by Saturn, lord of
 1 and 2, by the 30th nspect. Therefore, while considering what
Ketlm indicates by his occupation of the l2th house, the aspects
formed by Guru (Jupiter Brihasp itht). Saturn Sani) and Mars
(Mr hgat; would alsq have to he taken into account. Now, the
3nd house tn the chart, Kuuba (Aqu.nius) is unoccupied. It
gus l3)t Jupiter's 7th aspect and there is no other aspect to it, In
judi.Tg the secot.d house matters, one must bear the Jupiter's
aspect in nmd, what he would give as a benefit by nature in the
bonstcllal'on of lord of 5 and 50. Saturn as ruler of the 2ad
house will idso influence the affairs governed by that house.
     if wi examine the above horoscope according to the Western
trethtd, we will get more accurate results. Let us presume
                                 JU

that Mara la la the lltb degree of Kaooi and Kettm la the 11th
degree of Dhauus, I.e., exactlr 9J degrees from each other, and
Guru and Kcthu arc 108 degrees away (Garu being to 23
degrees of Simha), The angle of 10s degrees is considered to be
good and conducive to beneficial results according to
Westerners. But Mars and Ketbu are just 90° apart—a square
aspect. Applying the Hindu theory, we conclude that Kelhu is
In a Iceodra position to Mars and is also aspected by the latter by
its powerful 1-th aspect. Western astrologers, on the other hand,
disagree with this view and ever that a squre aspect, especially
between two raalefics, portrays evil for matters indicated by
them according to their occupation and rulcrship of houses. If,
however, Mars bad been in Kanya Isl degree, and Kcthu in
Dbanus 29th degree then thoy show beneficial results being at a
distance of 1)8' which is within the range of trine aspect, a very
favourable one. It will be observed that the same two planets
posited in ICaani and Dbanus give out varying results when
at different distances from each other without any change what-
ever In their sign position. Hindu aspects, modify the sign to
which the aspect is thrown and the characteristics of the aspccted
planet whether the results will be favourab-e or unfavourable is
judged by cuostderiag the lordship of (he planet aspecting a
house eg benches by ownership of good houses will ward off
evil and increase the beneficial results: malefics by being the
lord of 6ih or 6th or 12th bouses will afflict the signs aspccted by
them and rob away the beneficial effect of the planets in that
sign. Here, the correct method of ascertaining the aspects is
not included. But the Western system of aspects, on the
conirary, clearly demonsirates whether the outcome will be
good or bad according as the aspect is benign or adve sc. The
Western system of aspects must be studied and used so as to
arrive at accurate predictions. Tncrc Lis no shame in includmg
the Wrsiero system where (hey have advaocfd and are correct.

WtSTESH ASPcCIS
     Aspects are grouped into good and evil in this system,
depending on the nature of the acnon or the responses they pro-
duce, in other words, whether toey are favourable or uufavoura-
ble from a material standpoint. The good aud beueficul aspects
                               U4

produce what is often called 'good'. They stand for progress,
harmony and concord. On the other band, the unfavourable
aspects are adverse in nature denoting discord and disharmoay.
Rightly understood, the good aspects harmonise with our idea of
what is good and evoke a favourable response in the mind and
body and the adverse ones conflict with our idea of what is good
and as such provoke reaclions of an undesirable nature. This Is
the finding of the Westerners.
      But I surmise that if I plineis form favourable aspects,
then both of them will co-operate and offer such results which
the Lord of dasa and the planet indicate e.g. if the lord of the
dasa promises agreeable results, then planets forming
haroiomous aspect will assist the dasa lord to offer desirable
results. But if a planet forms adverse aspect, then, it will not
co-operate with dasa lord. If (he dasa lord has to bestow bene-
ficial results, then the planet forming evil aspect, will threaten
and offer undesirable results as it prevents the dasa lord to do
any good to the person, only during the sub-period governed by
the planet formmg evil aspect. .Suppose two planets in one
bouse throw aspects to the dusanaina in another sign. Planet
A is 40* away from C whose dasa is running and planet B is 60*
away. Then C dasa A Bbufcti will be evil whereas 'C dasa B
Bhukti will be good.
   The various zodiacal aspects applied in the West are
cnumerateu below
    Major aspects
     (1) Corr/uncjio/j (same degree and;minute of celestial longi-
tude). This is good or adverse according as the planets conne-
cted sre benefic or malefic by nature and by Adbipatya. It is
considered to be productive of immense good between bencfic
planets and, on the same analogy, malign mi between to planets
of which one is a bcnefic and the other a malefic, then it ia said
that the benefic is bereft to offer much of bs beneficiul results.
The malefic also similarly loses much of its inaligaancy by virtue
of its association with the benefic It is just like mixing hot and
cold water ; or roilk and water.
     Jupiter, Venus, unaffl cted Mercury and Waxing Moon are
classed as natural benetics. ^un, Mars, Saturn, tiranu;
                                115

Neptune, Rohu and Ketu are termed to be natural malefics. But
westerners tuctude Sun also as a benefic. 1 suggest thai too
much importance should not be attached to the natural tendency
of a planet. What ts more importaof Is whether the planet is a
benefic or malefic by ^dhlpathya since the results shown by lord-
ship will be pronounced.
     (J) Parallel of              (same degree and minute of
declination occupied by two heavenly bodies!; It is similar in
nature to conjunction and shows the same results.
     Two or more planets may be at the same distance from and
on the same side of the celestial equator, or one north and the
other south of the celestial equator but at equal distance from
the celestial equator. They arc then in P (parallel is the only
aspect not measured in celestial longitude. Truly speaking it is
a position and not an aspect, a^d regard as an aspect for facility
of reference).
    (3) Opposition (180 degrees apart). It is adverse In
nature, indicative of tension, if the planets are malefic by nature
or evil by lordship.
    (4) TWnc (120 degrees distance).            It is very powerful foc
good : benign in nature.
    (5)   Square (90 degrees angle),         It is evil.
    (6)   Sextife 60 degrees apart).         Similar to the trine.
    (7)   Semi-square (45 degrees).       It is moderately evil.
    (8)   5em(-jpJtri/f (30 degrees).     Slightly good.
                                    an   e
    (9)             C'^                g! )'     It is adverse in nature.
   (10)   Quintile (72 degrees).      This aspect is good,
   (Hi Btquintiie (144 degrees).         This aspect has been found
to be as good as a trine aspect.
   (12) Sesquiquadrate (135 degrees).           Siraiiar to semi angular
(45 degrees) in quality.
   (13)   Vigintile (18 degrees).      Slightly favourable.
   (14)               (24 degrees).      Slightly good.
     s
   (I )   Decil SeMl-qulntlle or 36 degrees,         Moderately good,
   ^16)   7>?d<rcj7c (10j> degrees).     Favourable.
                                116

   (17)   54 degrees :   Slightly good,
   (18)   162 degrees:   Slightly good.
All multiples of 22i degrees are evil, namely 22J, 45, 67^, 90,
1124, 135, i57J and 180 All oiultiples of 18 (except ;'0) and all
multiples of .'0 are beueScial, namely 18, 30, 36, 54, 60, 72, 108,
i2 , 126, 144 and lo2, except 90° and ISO".

     The conjunction is the most powerful of alt these. The
parallel is considered to be as strong as the conjunclioD, The
opposition, trine, quincunx, biqumtile, sesqinquadrate, square,
sextite and quintik ate next m strength and influence. The rest
are moderate iu effect.

     Orb; A torch, when lit, throws its light up to a certain
distance from it. If one were to stand just iu front of it, one
will And that the light is very bright; but a oou goes farther
away from the torch, the light gets scattered and after a certain
distance the light fades away completely. Similarly, the planets
radiate all round aud illumine the surroundiag space up to a
certain distance. This sphere of influeaoe i& called orb. Orb,
in other words, is an allowance of so many degrees on either side
of an exact aspect.
     Sub, the head of the solar system, is believed to exert his
influence up to 12 degrees when separating from it. Moon
which receives the rays of all the planets and reflects them to
the earth is considered next in importance and she is said to
possess influence up to 8 degrees when applying aud 12 degrees
when leaving a planet. The other planets are credited with an
orb of 0 degrees wncn applying aud 8 degrees wlien separating.
     Conjunction . Two planets occupying toe same degree aud
minute ot celestial 1 jngiiudc are uid to be iu r.ipi (perfectj con-
junction. It isselooiii that two planets are to pcrfeel coiijuuotion,
Iu such cases, they are still considered to oc in pcrjtmctioa if the
relative distance bcUvceo tucm is less than half ttn. sum of their
orbits taken together. If tha planets are not in exact conjunction,
then they are in wide (.piatic; conjunction.
    For conjunctions of huu. Moon and other planets with the
cusp of a house, an orb ot 6 degrees is to be unifojinty applied.
                                117

    The orbs allowed lo Sun, Moon and other planets are:
                            Applying        Separating
              Sun             12'              17°
              Moon             8*              12*
              Other planets    6°               8'

     Applying and Scparahng: When two heavenly bodies are
within the range of coajuoction or aspect and not in exact as rant
conjunctipa, the faster moving planet, if It happens to be placed
in the zodiac behind the other planet, i.e.. the slower moving one,
will move towards the latter to complete the conjunction n
aspect, unless the latier planet is retrograde. The conjunction or
aspect grows stronger and stronger as the quicker planet draws
near the culminating degree (exact conjunction or aspect) when
the ioBoence reachc# its peak or miximum. but as soon as the
quicker planet begins to move away from the culminating point,
the influence still remains but decreases slowly. When the
quicker planet goes fully beyond the orb of conjunction, the
influcnc; completely ceases. Suppose one observes two gentie-
man riding along a road, one on a motor cycle and the other on a
bicycle. He who is oa the motor cycle is at a certain distance
behind the one travelling in the bicyjle, Both are proceeding in
the same direction. Since ihe motor cycle has a greater speed
th m the bicycle, the man ou the motor cycle will slowly go nearer
the one oa the bicycle (wbich is similar to applying aspect) and
at a particular spot h: will catch the I nter <which is rqpt conjun-
ction). Thereafter, they continue their journey and fJowly the
distance between the l vo increase^ < which h similar to separattBg
asp' ctl and after, a certain time the man on the motor cycle is
 oof sighted. Likewise, the planets have different speeds. In the
course of therr travel in the same direction the swifter planet, if
 behind the slow-moving one, is said to be applying to the latter
and at a particular point both are in exact conjunct ion-As soon
 as the coojtinctton or aspect is complete, the swifter planet will
move away from it when it is said to be separating from the
conjunction or aspect as the case may be.
     Eoct aspect (conjuncfton'> is styled ,par??ic* or 'rapt'. An
is peel which is juM within the orb, cither applying or separating,
is termed 'platic' or "wide*. It must be remembered that the
                                 118

closer an aspect is, the stronger the result will be. An aspect or
coojuoction just within the raoge of or'] is weak in power.
      Moon is the fastest of all the pUnets. its daily Bantion beiag
 bewteen 12 and 15 degrees. It can (hereuire apply to Mercury,
 Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Satufn. Uricus and Neptune Mer-
 cury is the next in order of soecd     It moves between 66 minutes
 and 100 mmates of longitude per day (average or mean motioQ
 being ^9' "IS* of longitudet. Mercury can therefore apply to all
other planets' except the Moon. The third iu order of speed Is
 Veins which travels at a rate between 62 and             minutes of
longitude per day. Its mean motion is als i 39' OS' of longitude.
Venus will apply to Sao, Mars, Jupiter, Situra Uranus and
 Nentune. When one refers to an Ephemeris, one soaietmi-s
finds that the daily motion of Venus is greater than that of Mer-
cury on some days. On some other days, it is noticed that Sun's
motion is faster than that of both Venus and Mercury, Mercury
and Venus are never man than 28* and 48° away respectively
from the Sun on either side. Mercury can be at a maximum
distance of 76 degrees from Venus if Mercury is 28 degrees away
from the Sun on one side and Venus 4H degrees away from the
S jq on the other side. Generally, when Mercury is closer to the
Sun ('perihelion') it moves faster from the Sun, ('aphelion' or
the point in the orbit of a planet farthest from the Sun) than
Vcoui. The closer a planet Is in its orbit, to the Sun, the
jaster the planet goes, the farthest from the Sun its speed decreases.
Therefore carefully cote the exact daily m itions of the Sun, Mer-
cury and Venus before one recordi whether, in a particular
person'i chart, Mercury will aoply to Venus or vice versa.
     Sun Is fourth In speed It can applv to all other planets
except Moon, Mercury and Venus when Mercury and Venus have
a greater speed. Sun moves daily at a rate varying between
0*.57'-10* to IM'-ICT and its average motion is 0'-59'-08* per
day. Sub takes one month to transit every sign. Sua, Mercury
and Venus nulce » circuit of the zodiac in about a year.
     Mars has a daily motion ranging between 31 and 44 minutes
of celestial longitude, its average motion being SS'-Z?*. It can
therefore apply to Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. Mars
goes around the zodiac is nearly 22 months, taking about 55 days
to pass through a sigh.
                               119

     fupitcf comes next in the order of speed. It transits in the
zodiac at a speed between 5 and 15 minutes per day (its mean
motion being 5' per day). It can therefore apply to Saturn,
Uranus and Neptune. Jupiter takes 12 years to traverse the
zodiac, one year to go through a sign and one month to move
above     degrees
     Saturn is slower than Jupiter normally, but faster than
Uranus and Neptune. Its mean motion is 2' per day, Saturn
can apply to Uranus and Neptune but not to Moon, Mercury,
Venus, Sun, Mars and Jupiter tunless the latter are retrograde)
Saturn travels at the rate of I degree every month, 12 degrees
every year and requires about 29^ years to make a complete
circuit of the zodiac.
     Uranus requires 84 years to transit the entire zodiac and
about 7 years for each sign. Its daily mean motion is 42' of
'ungitude. It can apply only to Neptune.
     Neptune, being the slowest of the planets under considera-
tion, can apply to none. Its average or mean motion is 24* per
day. Neptune goes around the zodiac once In 165 years and
takes 14 years to go through one sign, travelling at the rate of
about 2 degrees per year.
     A ready table of the difference aspect and their range of
influence Is given below :
                              Applying     Exact     Separating
Major aspects
       (1) Opposition          172-180      180     180-188
       I?)   Trine             114—120      170     120—126
       (3) 126 degrees           — —        126     126—130
       (4)   Square             84-  90      90      90- 96
       (5)   Sextlle            54-  60      60      60- 66
       (5) Biquintile          141 -:44     144     144-147
       i7) Quincunx            148-i;o      150     150-153
       (8) Sesquiquadratc      132-135      135     135-13$
       (9) Tredecile           105-108      103     108-110
      (10) 54 degrees           52- 54       54      54— 56
      (U)    Semi-square        43—  45      43      45— 47
      (H) Decile                34- 36       36      36- 38
      (13) Semi-scxtile         28- 30       20      30— 32
      (14i Viginti'.c           16- 18       18      18- 20
    Other aspect?, such as 22J,              11     15'^ and
   decrees sliculd be exact. The aspect of 12b degrees is of the
same benign nature as trine
    To illustrate an example o: two planets in trine aspect, let it
be assumed thct Mars occupies Rlshaba 9 degrees and Jupiter
Kanni 17 degrr-es.
     The orb for a trine aspect being f degrees, Mars is just
within the distance constituting the trine wi'h Jupiter. Since
Mars moves fos'cr than Jupiter, it will shortly gain the necessary
(I degrees to complete ihe exact trine. In the course of its travel
from Rishaba 9 degrees to Rishaha 17 degrees (when the aspect
would be complete), the trine aspect in the process of being
formed ; in other words. Mars is applying approaching) to the
trine of fupiter. When Mars, by its swifter motion, moves away
from Rishaba )7 cgrees on to the 25th degree of Rishaba, It la
separating from the Jupiter's trine and the moment it is past the
 2Sth degree of Rishaba. the aspect is completely dissolved.
     In sla ilar manner, cthei aspects should be woikcd out.

MtJTUAL APi'LlLA i ION
     When two planets are within the range of an aspect and one
of them is In retrograde motion (i.e., moving against the natural
order of the signs), each will move towards the other. This it
called 'Mutual Application'.
     For example, Mars In ins Caocei' 8 degrees and Jupiter in
Vrischllia 14 degrres. Mars Is moving in direct motion ; that is,
he is moving froru Cancer 8 degress towards Cancer 14 degrees,
Jupiter, on the other hasd, is retrograde, i.e., he is retracting
from Vrischika / Scorpio) H degrees and is moving backwards
So Mars is moving towards Jupiter aod Jupiter is moving towards
Mars Due to the combined motions of these two planets, tbe
trine is in the process of being formed very quickly. This i>
termed 'Mutual Application'.

 Mutual appucation stronger than the applying aspec1,
     Retrogradafion is an appearance caused by the combined
 motious of a planet and the Earth and their positions relative to
                               Ul

the jun. No planet retraces in its orbit but is ever io its for-
ward motion. This phenoiDenon of retrograde motion occurs duo
to the difference In the speeds of the plane:^ as sccu from the
Earth as the centre. In this process, a planet appears to over-
take another planet, than slows down: thereafter it appears not
to move (wb'.-n it is said to be stationary) and then appears to
start moving backwards In the zodiac, as the position of the
planets in the zodiac Is always referred to the background
 with full of fixed stare which among themselves maintain the
«cme relative position.
    If a planet's longitude is going on decreasing, then (U':
planet la in retrogradfc rootion. 5wn and Moon are never retro-
grade : Rahu and Kethu are ever retrograde and never in direct
motion.
     Mercury is retrograde for a period of 24 days and Is station-
ary about one day before and after the retrograde motion,
    Venus is retrcgrade for 42 days and is stationary for about
2 days before and Z days after rctrogiadation.
     Jupiter is seen to retrograde for about UO days, remaiatog
stationary approximately 5 days before and after.
      When a planet is in retrograde motion, It is denoted in the
Fphemeris by the letter 'R' and on the date when it turns direct
It is indicated by 'D'.
     Llewyiyn George, a noted Western astrologer, avers that the
infiuencc of benefics when they are retrograde is weakened very
much and they lose their power to offer beneficial results. On
the other hand, a malefic planet if it happens to be retrograde
the evil result is increased doublefold. He further says that,
when two planets which are retrograde arc in good aspect, tbe
results indicated by the aspect would be deficient and disappoint-
ing and would fall short of its efficacy in the good results which
would otherwise be experienced had the two planets not been
retrograde. He believes that an evil aspect by a planet, which
is retrograde, accentuates the evil iafiuence. Other Western
authors have also the same view.
     Hindus, however, do not share the above view. Aecordmr
 to Varahamibira in Brihat Jataka, bentfics when retrograde cxeit
                                 122

bappj influeace for u very long tirns whil? m^lefics augment tbc
evil, Ktilidas says in "Uiurj Kahmritaar' (Sloka I, Khanda
11/ that (fc siiEoglt) of a retrograde planet is equal to its
exaltatkiTi. A planet %bieb is coajoioed with another planet
jthich is retrogtade gets increased strcngtli. He further says
that when a planet, while it) its exaltation sign, is also retrograde,
then it auains neetha strength and the strength of a planet,
pos.ted in its debilitation sign but retrograde, is similar to its
ejtali tion. M nlreswara in 'Phaladeeptka* (Slok'a 4, Adhyaya IV)
is emphatic that a retrograde planet possesses strength even
thoweh it may be pushed it its depression or inimici) sign or
amsa. Other Hindu sages have also expressed the same view,

CoMflusitON of Light
     A pUnet is said to lose its power completely when it is
within a certain distance from the Sun. Mercury being an
exception In that condition, the planet is called "combust* or
burnl up by the iictr:! rays. When a planet is posited in the
same dcgiee and minute of longitude as the one occupied by the
Suu, then u is said io be m rapt coajuoction with (he Sun and it
is cuttsidercd to tic eclipsed and utterly powerless,

     i-danets within a distance of 5 degrees from the Sun arc also
in combustion (eclipsed) It howevtr. they are 10 degrees away
from the Sun, then the combustion is only ordinary. When (he
planet Is beyond 15 degrees, (hen there Is no combustion at all.

Transla tiohi of Light
      An applying, appro::chine aspect, i.e., one in the process of
forrnalioa, is more (-..iwcrfui than tbe scpuralina one and
connotes new experience, Tde exact aspect over its influence
omndisbes slowly and ceases completely after the aspect is
dissolved. Sometirucs two planets transit in the zodiac at
different points. Thcv have do aspect between them, hut a
third planet interposed between them may brlag them closer
together. For cxampfc, Mars is placed in Rishaba 5 degrees
and Jupiter Viischilta 1? degrees. They arc not in opposttioo as
Jupiter -t degiees beyono J3ih degree of Vnschika up to which
tiit orb of opposition txieuds but if Moon were to beinSioiha
                               121

11* (hen it will bs ia square to both Mars and Jupiter (alter
allowing the orb for square aspect. It will then transmute
the influence of the malefic Mars towards (bat of the bcnefic
Jupiter. There was no opposition ordinarily between Mars
and Jupiter, but Moon situated in between them brought it
about.

      Western authors believe that translation of light is a power'
fill testimoov for results, good or bad, according as the aspect
thrown is good in quality and according as the planets connected
are benefic or malefic by ownership and by nature.


The various aspects in a natal Chart may bb PKbPARED in a
Tabular form

     Aspect is very important to study the results of a horoscope.
Erect a horoscope for the birth time of a native. Make an orderly
tabulation of the different aspects formed between any two
planets, sod the aspects formed by the planet to the cusps of the
various houses and mainly to Foriuna.

     The easiest way to find the aspects Is to take the planets one
by one. Let us, start with, take the Moon since ll is the fastest
of all the planets. Suppose Moon is in 10" Mesha (Aries). It a
planet were to be in Mesha between 10* and JO0, count the exact
□umber of degrees at which the planet is away from the Moon.
Next note whether there is a planet in Rishabha (Taurus).
Record the distance of the planet in Rishabha from the Moon is
Aries. Similarly, one should find out the planets in Mitnuoa
iGemini, Kataka (Cancer) aaJ.so on and cnlcuiate the relative
pojitioo, Wbciher there is any aspect or not, one has to note
down the actual longitude between the Moon und the different
planets. Similarly, one i" to calculate the exret distance (l)
between the different planets, (2) between the planets and the
cusps of the 12 bouses and (3) the distance between the planets
and Foriuna.

    After having so calculated the distances, find out whether
there are any aspects after allowing the orbs fur different aspects
explained in the previous pages.
Principles of judgmbnf
     Aspects are the modifying infloences in horoscope and a
prediction is never complete unless ibe aspects are properly com-
puted, studied, and the results judged Actually, the diatnetricaliy
opposite results enjoyed by (he twins can be scientifically
explained by the aspect between the cusp and the signiflcator,
A few useful hints are given below to enable one to arrive at a
correct judgment.
     (1) First assess the strength of the aspect. Decile or 58
degrees aspect is not so powerful for good as a trine or 120
degrees aspect; nor semi-square or 45 degrees aspect is so harm-
ful as square or >0 degrees
    (2) What Is the quality of the aspect?         Is it a beneficial
aspect or an evil one 7
    (3)   Is the aspect exact (rapt, partiJe) or is it wide (platic) ?
    If platic, note whether the aspect is in the process of
formation or dissolution.
    (4) Note the affairs governed by the house occupied by the
aspecied planet. Is it conjoined with any other planet at the
same time 7 Association with a benefic (lord of a beneficial
house in the chart) is very good and auspicious. Any connection
with maiefics, more cSjpciaUy with lords of 6 of 3 or 12 either by
being conjoined with them or occupying their nakshatras, etc,
protends evil. The nakshalra occupied by a planet h the most
important as the results denoted by the nacshatra lard (by iu
ownership) will mostly prodominate.
     (5) What docs the aspected planet oenote by his lordship?
Is he a bcnefic or not? No douai a planet possesses certain
natural characteristics and these results will operate, but what
the placet has to give by lordship will even change the results
indicated by its nature e'g., Jupiter, a benefic by nature will be
evil by owning evil houses. Saturn by owning favourable houses
becomes a benefic. Even these results are modified and changed
by the occupaimn of various houses tn the chart. The correct
way is to judge by taking the planet's occupation, lordstnp of
bouses and its nature. Occupation in a particular constellation and
the modification Oy the lord of the conste.'iMion are still more
                               125

important. Juptter and V«nus wbo are natural benefics prove to
be tbe worst evils for a fiuraber of people and the natural
malcfics. Mars and Saturn, Immensely benefit some, as they
oncupv the constellation of the planets owning and occupying
good houses.
     161 Is the aspected planet placed in house which is 6 or 8
or 12 to the one it owns ? Find out whether it is in a good angle
(aspect) to the cusp of the house of which it is the owner. Suppose
a person Is born when the 29th degree of Aries (Mesha) was
rising Is the East. Then Mars rules the first house K Mars
happens to occupy Kanya (Virgo) 2nd degree, according to the
Hindu method. Mars would be considered as being in 6th to the
iagna and therefore badly placed. Actually, however, Mais is at
a distance of 123° from tbe Ascendant and so it is in good trine
aspect. It is advisable, therefore, to follow the method of
finding out the exact distance. This is the proper and correct
method.
      Hindus believe that a house-bbava gets completely destroyed
if its owner is posited in a sign 6 or H or 12 to the sign, it owns,
or lords of 6 or 8 or 12 to a particular Bhava occupy that sign.
A planet may own two homes. To one bouse It may be la 6 or
8 oi 12, To the other it will not be In 6 or 8 or 12, That house
to which It is in 6 or 12 will suffer whereat tbe matters signified
by tbe other Bbava will improve.
     t7) Is the arpectcd planet dignified ? A planet in its exalta-
tion sign is the strongest. Next is the one in a Vargottamma
position, I.e., occupying tbe same sign both In the rasi and fa the
rmamsa chart. The third Is tbe one In Its Moolathrikona day
bousr). The fourth, the one In its swakihetra (own house) and
the fifth is the phnet which is in Its friend's quarters. A planet
In debilitation or in enemy's camp or connected with malcfics In
any manner, U said to be weakly posited and afflicted
     (g) Then note the nature of the sign occupied by the
aspected pbnet. Is it a movable (chars) sign, or fixed (sthjra)
sign or coQimon ubhaya) sign 7 Is the sign fiery, earthy, airy or
watery, positive or negative, fruitful or barren, etc.
     Similarly, find oat whether the aspecting planet ii a bencfic
 by lordship, whether he is dignified or afflicted, beneficial or
                                126

adverse by occupation and whether It aspects from a sfgn conge-
nial to its nature. Also whether (he aspect!ng planet in a kendra
(angular), paoapbara (succeedeot) or apoktlma tcadent) house.
Houses 1, 4, 7 sod 10 are termed kendra houses and planets
herein are said to be accideDtalJy dignified, i.e., they attain full
strength to express themselves. Planets in 3, 5, 3 and (1 called
succeedenl (panapharai houses gain moderate strength. The
houses 3, 6, 9 and 12 are called oadent (apoklima) and planets in
these bouses get weakened and lack opportunity for expression.
It is also important to note who is (he lord of the eonstctlaiion m
which aspecting planet is situated.

     If one has correctly assimilated the basic elemcots constitu-
ting a horoscope and has acquired the ability to synthesize pro-
perly, the value of this method to predict the nature of event, the
time of CTcnt, and the extent to which it can offer, will be realised
tod recognised-
        CASTING OF A HOROSCOPE USING
     KRJSHNAMURTI'S EPHEMER1S TO READ
            RESULTS AS PER HIS THEORY

     Apart from « thorough knowledge of K.P, and Kmbnamurtl
Ephemerif, the tbree most essential pre-requisites Tor casting a
birth chart are . 11 Birth place, (2) Birth Time, &. {3) Birth Date.
Even a slight mtstakc in recording the above mentioned parti-
culars may lead to unpardonable blunders in casting a horoscope.
PARTICtJLAHS
         Birth Place   i   GUNA. (M.P.)
         Birth Time    !   9^08 P.M.
         Birth Date    :   1-9-193'!.

     The procedure of casting horoscope Includes following mai j
r
 tcp81

First Snpt
OONVERSION OF TBE INDIAN StANDARP TlMS INTO LOCAL MEAN
Time
      The Earth moves in an ellipse round the Sun and revolves
once on its axis in 24 hours. It takes 4 minutes to revo've one
degree from west to east direction, and thereby every solar body
appears to move from east to west Hence in places In the same
latitude about one degree c^st of any place the Sun rise will be
seen 4 mts. earlier than places in the west, India! Standard
Time ia always 5 hrs. 30 mts. ahead of Greenwich Mean Time
because it is fixed for the longitude 82 deg. 30 mts E. For the
calculation of Local Mean Time it is necessary to nore the
Geographical Coordinates i.e. the Lat, & Lone. For this we
should refer Krishnamurtl Ephemcm I Vol. (19!!—40), pages
fi to xi and And out the Lat. & Long of the Birth place.
                                  U8

      Btrch Place   r   GDNA       M ?•]
      Latitude      :   24* ^0'     N.
      Longitude     ;   77* 20'     E.
     Tbe Indian St r.dard 1 iaie given Is 9 hrs. B mts. The
difference between I S T. & G.M.T. is b hrs 30 mts. Therefore
9 hr». 8 mts. p.tn, LS.T. = |i9'8] p.m.—[5-30] p.m. = 3-28 p,m.
G.M.T.
    Longitude of Guoa     77* 20' E.
    Since Time Correction for I" is 4 aitfip
    the Time Correction for 77' 20' will be 77' 30' x 4
                                           = 309'—20'
                                           = 4 hrs, 9 mts. 20 sec.
    Hence L.M.T.        =   [3-38] + [5-9-20]
                        =   8 hrs. 47 mts, 30 sees.

Second Method
    As Guna Is west of the chosen meridian 82* 30', tbe diff.
of Long is 5' 10*. The time correction @ *' per deg. will be
•qual to 5' 10 x 4 = 20 mts. 40 ices.
So, when It Is 9.8 p.m. 1ST. ft means [9-8]—[0 hr, 20 mts, 40 sees ]
                    — i hrs. 47 mtc. 30 Bees, p.m. LMT. at Oaoa.
Note;—If the locality is in the east of the chosen meridian
82* 30'E. then the time correction calculated 4 mis @ per deg.
for the difference oflongitude of place of birth & SJ* 30* should be
added to the 15T in order to obtain LMT for the birth place.
Second Stsp
Calcuhtion Op Sidereal Time From Local Mean Time
     For this it it necessary to refer Krishnamurtl Ephemeris. In
these the sid-ieal time for 5-30 p.m. 1ST equivalent to 5-30 p.ro.
LMT to 82° . 0' B longitude is given. Take tbe Ephemeris and
turn over to ^age 149 i.e. Sept. 1935. As the time of birth in
LMT is In p.m. and above 5-30 p.m. take the sidereal time^ for
the same date. If the LMT is less than 5-30 take tbe sidereal
time for the previous date. The sidereal time at 5-30 LMT as Is
 given in Ephemeris Is lb' 52' 16' on 12—9—1935. The correction
 for east longitude i.e. 5B i0 @ 2/3 see, per deg, will be 3 sees,
 which should he added to the sidereal time, if tbe locality is west
                                129

of tlie chorea meridian. If it is e<i»t of the chosen meridian, this
correction should be subtmcted. The correction for east longi-
tude it negllglbie, to tt is to be omitted. The sidereal time at
3'30 p.m. LMT on 12-9—1935 is
                                           hrs.         mts.        sees.
                                            16           52         16
Interval between 3-30 p.m. of the same date
and the birth time Id LMT                   03           17         20
Correction for the Interval @ 10 sec/hr...     00       00          33
Adding all these
                                       Total    20        10        09

    Therefore, the sidereal time at th.5 time of birth i.e. 9-8 p.m.
1ST which is 8° 47'20* p.ffl LMT at Guna on 12-9.1935 is
   10' 9'.

Fhikd STBP
Finding Out The Position Of The Ascenpant And Other
Cusps
     Since Krishnamurti's Universal Table of Houses are not
published, we can take Raphael's Table of Houses for Northern
latitudes. Referriog to the page where the cusps of the houses
are given for 24* 27' fc r AMOY [which is near to 24' 40* N i e,
the lat, of Guna, place of birth,1 it will be seen that the sidereal
time at the time of bitlb i.e. 20 his. 10 mts 9 sees, falls between
the two tionings. 20 hrs. K mts 45 sees & 20 hrs. 12 mts. 54 sees.
The positions of the cusps are noted below as are given in the
Tables of Houses.
     Sidereal          10       11        12         12               3
     Time
     H. M. S.
     20- 8-45          0'       2ti*      3'   (1*49'         11*        5*
     20—12—54          t"       29°       4*   13*03'         12*        6*
     The difference between the two sidereal limes as noted above
U [20—12—541—[20—8—45] i.e. 0-4-9 or 2^9 sees. The differ-
ence between the sidereal time at birth which is 20 hrs. 10 mts
i* sect, and the sidereal time 20 hrs. 8 cote. 45 sees, is 0—i—24 or
                              130

84 sees. So the fraction of 81/249 is to he worked out and added
to the positloo civen for 20 hn. 8 mts. 45 aecs Now we 6od out
the exact position of (be point which was rising at birth.
                  = 1° 14' of 84/219
                  = 74 ol ^4(249 mts.
                  = 25 mts. nearly,
add this to 11° 49' Taurus i.e. 11° 49' plus 0° 25'= 12* 14'.
1 lOrtis will be the exact position of the Ascendant—Ssynna
System, For otlicr cusps, aa the diffcreoce is onlv 1° or 60 mti.
add 60 of 84/249 m<s. or 20 mts. nearly to (be positioo of (he
cusps given for the sidereal time, i.e., 20* 1' 45' we get the
positions of the cusps as Tabled below
Sidereal
Time     10th  lltb    12th              Asc.    2nd    3rd
H.MS. Aquarius Aquarius Aries            Taurus Gemini Cancer
20 10-9 O0 20' 28* 20' 3° 20'            12° 14' 11* IC 5° 20'
Add 180° to the above cusps to find out the positions of the cusps
for the other bouses. Thus the position of all the 12 cusps are
obtained as below.

         Houses                Deg-     Mts.     Sayana Signs

      Ascendant                 12      14          Taurus
    2nd                         11      20          Gemini
    3rd                          5      20          Cancer
    4th (Nadir)                  0      20          Leo
    5th                         28      20          Leo
    6th                          3      20          Libra
    7th (Descendaut)            12       14         Scorpio
    6th                         It      20          SagMt&iius
    9th                          5      20          Capricorn
    10th                         0      20          Aquarius
    nib                         28       20         Aquarius
    12th                          3     20          Aries

As the horoscope is to be cast in Nirayaoa, we should deduct the
Ayanumsa for the year of birth from the Sayaoa positions of
cusps. Kmbnamurtl Ayanamsa as is given »v         Epbcmerte on
                                 131

pajc xviii for the yejr \9^S is 22 deg. 51 mts Deducting 12 deg.
SI mts. from tach cusp and tabulating as below.

House D.M S.        Sign     Minus     22#5l'=D.M.S.          Sign
                    Sayana                                    Nirayana
                    Position                                  position
      I   12-14-0   Taurus       tl    ••    —    19-23-0     Aries
     II   11-20 0   Gemini       -»    If    =    18-290      Taurui
    HI     5-20-u   Cancer       VI    It    =    12-29-0     Gemini
    IV     0 20-0   Leo          IV    VI    —     7-29-0     Cancer
     V    28-20-0   Leo                II    -     5-29-0     Leo
    VI     3.20-0   Liora              ft    =    10-29-0     Virgo
   vu     12-14-0   Scorpio      VI    •V         19-29-0     Libra
   vm     11-20-0   Sagittarius ■ t    t*    =    18-29-0     Scorpio
    IX     5-200    Capricorn It       It    =    12-29-0     Sagittarius
     X     0-200    Aquarius tl        It    =     7-29-0     Capricorn
    XI    28- .00   Aquarius      VI   tl    =     5-29-0     Aquarius
    XII    3-20-0    Aries        »•    «*        l£>- i9-0    Pisces


     The Nifayana cuspal Chart is as follows t


                Pitccs     Aries   Teurui    Oeminl
               Xll 10-2? AK. 19-23 11 18-33 111 12-29


               Aqutfiut                          Cancer
               XI 5.29                           IV 7-29
                              NIRAYANA
                                 RASI
               Csprlcorn                          Leo
                X 7-19                           V 5-29


               Sagittariiu Scorpio ! Libra     Virgo
                IX 12-23 VJII 18-29 jVH 19-2J VI 10-29
                                   \i2

Fourth Step;
Finding ihb positions of planets at birth timb (IST)
     To find out the positions of planets, take Krisbnamurti
Ephemeris for the year 1911-1940 A.D., and turn over to page 149
where the planetary positions for the month of September, 1935
are given. Find out the position on 12—9—1935 and 13—9—19'5
as the birth has taken place in between these two dates. The
proportional molioD should be calculated for the interval between
i-30 p.m. of the date for which the sidereal time is noted and the
birth time in [ST. The following Is the position of planets.


          Position    Petition     Motion     Proportional
Planets        oe           oa     for one       Motion      Actual
          12.M935     1.3-9-19J5        day      for the     Poiition
                                                 interval

Sun        168°-47'     169'-46'    + O'-SO' + 0'-8-43* 168°-55-4 3
Moon       343-49       359-09      4- 15-20 4- 2-19 346-08
Mars       237-18       237-58      -f 0-40 -f- 0-5-71 237-i3-7I
Mercury    192-57       194-15      -I- I-IS + 0-11-14 193- 8-14
Jupiter    228-48       228-57      + 0-09 + 0- 1-30 228-49-30
Venus (R> 162-15        16 M0       - 0-35 - 0-5-0      162-10-UQ
Saturn (R) 335-54       335-50      - 0-04 — 0-0-55 335-53-45
Rahu       288-46       288-43      - n-03 - 0-0-43 228-4 So?
Uranus (Rj 35-06         35-05      - 0-01 - 0-0-14 35- 5-86
Neptune    163-30       164-32      % 0-02 + 0-0-28 164-30-28


     The motion of each planet for a day i.e. 24 hours Is given.
As birth has taken place 3 hrs. 38 mts. after 5-30 p.m. 15T on
12-9-1935 find out the proportional movement for this interval,
and add the same to the position of 12—9—1935, if the planet is
in direct motion or deduct, if the planet is retrograde. As
Rahu's position given in ephemcrts, so to fix Methu's longitudes
add 180°.

     The Ayaoamsa for the year 1935, is 22 deg 51 mts. There-
fore, the Nirayana planetary position can be obtained by deduc-
ting the Ayanamsa from the Sayana position as is given below : —
Planed   Sayana Position     Lcai Aynnamia       Nlrayana Position
             D.     M.           D.    M.          a       M.
Sun           168 55-43          22   51           146     4-43
Moon         346    8-01)        32   51           t23    17-00
Mats          2 37 23-fl         22   51           214    32-71
Mercury       193   8-14         22   31           170    17-14
Jupiter       228 49-^0          22   31           305    58-30
Venus (R)     162 10 00          22   SI           139    19-00
Saturn (R)    335 53-45          22    51          313     2-45
Rahu         ,288 43-47          22   31           265    54-47
Kcthu          108 45-47         22   51            85    54-47
Uruuus (R)      35  5-86         22   31            12    14-86
Neptune       164 30-38          2?   31           141    39-28
Flfrn Sfbr;
PoSlTIQN Of FORTUNA (F)
    Longitude of Lagoa                   19 deg.     *3 mil.
    Add Longitude of Moon               323 „        n
    Sum of Lagna and Moon               342          40
    Deducting Long, of Sun              146 M      4-43
    Longitude of Fortuna                196 ..    35-57
                                      -          35-57
                                      - Libra 16*-35-57'
Sixth Step :
tzKECf RASI-CHAKRA ANO INSERT TUB PtANfiTS.
                         Uranus
                           CR|          Rethu
                         12M4'        25* 54' 47*
                          A sc.
                         !9*-2»'
                Moon
               23*-1T
               Saturn
              I3*-2'-45*
                           RASt CHART  Vcout (R)
                                             Neptune
                                            21* 39- 38*
                                               Sun
                                             26*-4'-4J*
                                   Fortune
                 riahu      Mats 16* 3 S' IT Mcrcnry
              25* 34' 47' 4M2'-TI* Jupiter 20* 17' 14'
                                  33* 38' 30*
                              134

Seventh Step:
Calculation of Dasa Balance at Birth,
     Mood at the time of birth was in 23 dcg. 17 mis. Aquarius
Id Poorvapathra star which cstend^ fiom cO deg. Aquarius to
3 deg. ^0 mts. Pisces ThWeWe. the portioo to be covered by
Moon ts 10 deg 03 mts. or (>03 mis. Jupiter has t6 years of
Dashft. The Longitude of a star is )3dez 20 mta, or 6C0 mis.
Therefore, the balance of Jupiter Dbisa at birth.
                            - 403/600 x 16
                            = 12 years 21 6 days.
                            ^ 12 years 22 days appro*.
     The above Dasha balance can be easily obtained by referring
Krlsbnamurti Epbemeris Vol III i.e. 1957-70 A.D Turn to pp.
I.-18, In this table note the Nirayana Longitude of Moon
23 deg. in the column of sign Kumbha. There is written balance
of Jupiter Dasha 12 yts. 4 mon. 24 days. Now turn the pp. 16
and note for 17 intg. In Jupiter Dasba Column. There we shall
find 4 mon 2 days. So deduct this (7 mts. period from 23 deg.
period, as Moon has already moved 17 mts.
Therefore the balance of Jup, Daeha at birth= 12 y ra 4 mon 24 ds.
                                            = 0 „ 4 „        2 ds.

                          On subtracting          12 yts. 22 days

Eighth Stip:
PtEPABATlON OF A HEADY         RtFERFNCE TABLE FOR BaUHTt &.
AnthRas
      For this refer K rishnamurti Ephemeria Vol. I pp xlx to
xxiii. Turn the page 171 ofK P. Vol. 1 where Dasha, Bhuktl and
Antbras of Jupiter arc eiveit, Ti'buiattf thern as under:—

     Dasha      tthukti      Anthra         From            To
                                           D.M.Y.          D.M Y.
     Jupiter    Saturn      Mars             12-9-1935     15-6-9 1935
                   i»       Rahu           I5-6-9-1Q3S      2-4-2-1^36
                   t•       Jupiter          2-i-2-193 5      4-6-1936
       ft       Mercury     Mercury                             •t
                                135

     Besides casting of a correct horoscope, it Is necessary Tor an
astrologer to judge the oalivity systennatically and sctentifically
according to Krisbnamurti Padhdhaij so ibat b" may make correct
and pointed predictions. For this our revered Guruji Prof.
Krisbnamurti has enunciated some principles which everybody can
search in his great books. "Stellar Astrological Readers I to VI"
and the esteemed JoorDal "Astrology and Athrishta". By the
application of these principles we can prepare some tables as arc
given below, which along with a ready reckoner tuhle for daaa
and bbukti will enable an astrologer to make correct and
pointed predictions to the minutest details.
Position of thb planets and tHHr coNDirtoNS;
Planets    1 S-D-M        Constellatioo | Con*. Lord i Sob Lord
Sun          4-26- 4.43 Pool vapalguni       Venus       Kcthu
Moon        10-23-17.00 Sbathabbisha         Rabu        Saturn
Mars         7-04-3?.71 Anuradha             Saturn      Saturn
Mercury      5-30-17.14 Ha st ham            Moon        Kethu
lu piter     6-25-5S.30 Visakatn             Jupiter     Kcthu
Venus        4-19-19,00 Poorvapalguni        Venus       Rahu
Saturn      10-13-02. *5 Shatbabfaisba       Rabu        Mercury
Rahu                     Poorvashada         Venus       Kethu
Kcthu        7-25-54-47 Punarvasu            Jupiter     Kethu

CuSPAL POStflONS OF TWELVE BHAVAS
 Bhava  I b—D—M 1 Cusp Sign Lord 1 Conncilalion | Sub
         1           1            1   Lord      [ Lord
I          0 -19-23      Mars        Venus        Rahu
It         I—18—29       Venus       Moon         Mercury
III        2—12—29       Mercury     ;Uhn         Saturn
IV         3— 7—29       Moon        Saturn      Kcthu
V          4- 5—29       Sun         Xetbu       Man
VI         5—10—?y        Mercury    Moon         Moon
VII        6-19 23       Venua       Rabu        Mars
VIII       7 -18— 29     Mars        Mercury     Mercury
tx         8—12—39       Jupiter     Kcthu       Mercury
X          9- 7-29       Saturn      Sun         Kcthu
XI        10- 5—29       Saturn      Mars        Sun
XII      11-10 -29       Jupiter     Saturn      Sun
                                    136

House Sjonificatobs

           Platteti in the                      Planet* in the     Sign Lord
           Cqd&i of the       Occupant*          Conn of tbe
  Houm                       of tbe Bbava                             Ciup
            Occupant*                           Cuip itgD lord

I                                                                      Mars
II                                              Ven. Sun. Rah.         Venus
III                            Ketu                                    Mercury
IV                                              Mefctiry               Moon
V                              | Sim
         Veil. Sun, Rah.       | Ven,                  —               Sun
VI                 —             Mer,                  —               Mercury
VII      Moon. Jup Kctu        | Jup.           Ven. Sun. Rahu         Venus
                 ..   »»       I Mars
vin                                                  —                 Mars
IX         Saturn                  Raho         Moon Jup Ketu          Jupiter
X                                                  Mars                Saturn
XI           Mercury          | Moon
             Mars             t Sat.               Mars                Saturn
XII                                             Moon Jup Ket.          Jupiter



Planets stGNimNC houses

              Suit            5.           2,         7
              Moon            7,          11.         9.         12,
              Mars           11,           7.        10.          1.
              Mercury        m             6,         4.          3
              Jupiter         7.           9,        12
              Venus           5.           2.         7
              Saturn          9,          It         10
              Rahu            5,           9.         2.          7
              Ketho           7,           1          9,         12


Notei— Rahu & Ktthu are Nodes. A node signifies firstly the
results of tbe planet or planets with which It is coojomed, then
the results of lord of the constellation in which it is deposited,
then tbe planet or planeis aspecllng it and lastly of tbe owner of
the sign in which It is deposited.
                                13/

WAR TIME OR CIVIL TIME
(Only K..P. can answeh)
     The foUowiDg horoscope wai taken on 3—3 —1970 at >-30
p.m. Tor rectifying time of oirth. According to the native the
time of birth was about 3-45 a.m. on 7^ 3^1944. It it not
known whether tbia la War time or civil time. Any such doubt
can be precisely cleared using Krishnamurtl Padhdbati. Here
rules are very aimpte and there ii no scope for confusion.
   Haling planeta at tbe moment of judgement are Lord of the
day—Mars; Moon sign Lord—Jupiter; Moon star Lord—
Venus ;and Ascending sign Lord—Jupiter.

                                    V 0M7'
                                   Sat, 26*36' vnirsc
                         IV I*-47* Ma 26"  S3'
                                   VI 23M6
             111 2«'-47'                       Ra
                  Sun                          Mn 19" iS
                J3MS'                          Vlil24"!7'
              Mercury                           iup. (RJ
                13* 3S* Birth at 2-30 P.M.       26"-0v'
                Venus      on 7—J—JS4J
                W-TT
              ii w-r                           IX 2B* 47'
                 Ketu
                1 r-**'

                        XI 1* 47' X I* 47'
              1 21"-36' Xil25"56'


    Balance of Mercury Dasa 13 years 8 months 13 days.

     If the time of birth were to be around 3-43 a.m. the lagna
would be in Makara wbose lord is Saturn. But he la not amoog
tbe ruling planets. This clearly shows that the lagna is in
Jupiter's sign Dbaous and in that it can be only In Veoui Star,
Now a doubt may come as to the sub lord of tbe Ascendant; of
tbe ruling planets Mars is left out. But Jupiter is repeated as
the Moon sign Lord and also as lagna lord, Tbe Jupiter is doubly
stronger to rule the lagna sub. Tbe sub sub lord is Mars, Thus
the lagna is fixed at 21° j6' in Dhaaus. Tbe time ot birth is
2-40 a.m. That means tbe time reported is War tune and not
                                13S

Civil time. The cuips of the 12 houses and the planetary posi-
tions are thus.
    One event in the life of the native Is verified to test the
accuracy of the chart.
    Entry into service:    Houses 3, 6. 10 and i 1 arc to be judged
for service*

Slgolficators are ;
              House                   Significators
                2            Moon. Jupiter. Venus, Mercury,
                             Sun, Rahu, Saturn and Ketu.
                6            Mars, Saturn, Venus and Rahu
               10            Venus*
               It            Mars, Saturn and Venus.

     Venus is the strongest significalor for job; signifying all the
four houses strongly. He is the only strong sigmficator for 10th
house. So he can offer job during his Dasa, Bhukti and Anthra
This period runs from 21-11-1964 to 9 6-1965. From the ruling
planets, Jupiter, is found to be the strongest to offer favourable
results. Further in the Natal chart he is receiving beneficial
aspect from Venus. Hence in bis Sookshma, the desired result
should have come. This came actually on 12—3 — 1965, Friday
ruled by Venus, and the slar was Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter.
Sun was in Poorvashada belonging to Jupiter and in the sub of
Venus. Major Lord Venus was at               in Aquarius t.c, in the
star and sub of Jupiter. Thus the significators confirmed the
event by their transit in the Zodiac.
                                 139

ERECTION OF HOROSCOPE

PARTICULARS OF BIRTH
    Date of Bulb... 11—6—193li.
    Time of Birth .,7-30 a.m. I.S.I.
    Place of Birtb. . Belgatun

Proceddre
FIRST STEP:
Find our the local mean time ;
      Note the place of birth, next refer Krisbsatnurti Ephcmeris
Volume I, page it to xi and uote the Latitude and Longitude of
the place of birtb    Indian Standard Time is always o hours 30
rats, in advance of greenwich mean time (lt'=4tnts) Therefore
Indian Standard time is fixed for 82n-j0' Hast Longitude.

   Place of Birth —Belganm—Latitude —15°-52' Longitude—
74M4'£.
    Difference between I.S.T, and G.M.T, is 5 hours BOmta.

    .*, 7-37 a.m. I.S.T., means (7-37)—(5-30j = 2.07 a.m. G.M.T.
Longitude           E ; i0=4 minutes,

   74*-34'x 4=298'—16'=4 hours 58 minutes 6 sees.           Hence
L.M.T.= 2-07-l-4-58-16=7 hours 5 minutes 16 sees.

    TIME OF BIRTB 7-37 a.m., I.S.T..= 7-516 a.m. L M.T.

     A more simple method will be as follows :
     Place of Birth. Bclgaum Longitude 74D.34' E, Indian
Standard Time is fixed for 82o-30'E Longitude. Now note the
difference between the Longitude Sl'-SO'E 74''-34,E, place of birth
i.e.; (8?'-30,j)-(74*-34)=7o-56' 1 = 4 mts.            7-56,x4t=3I
mts—44 sees. (Local Mean time will be greater than Indian
Standard Time if the Longitude of the place of birth is greater
than SZMO'E and if the Longitude of the place is less than
82o-30tE, then L.M T. is less than the I.S.T. = (7-37')—(0-31-44 =
7b-5ai-16s. a.m. L M.T,
                                140

SECOND STEP :
Fine our the sidereal time;
     Take the Kmhuamurti's Hphemeris Vol. I, and turn over to
page 117 i.e., June 1930. As the time of birth is before 5-10 p.m.
L.M T., take the sidereal lime given for the previous date
5-30 p.m. L.M.T ■ Suppose the birth is above 5-30 p.m. L.M.T.,
then lake the sidereal time given for the same date). Sidereal
time at 5-3o p ro, on 10—6—1930, as is given in KTisbaamurtt's
Ephemeris is t0O'42'-i8' tCorrectton for Longitude i.e.,
213 sec, per hour is negligible-so omit.)
      [Note : —For birth in India, one need not deduct the correc-
tion if the Longitude of place of birth Is above t2o-30'H or add
the correction if the Longitude of place of birth is leas than
ti2o-30,ti. The Loogitude of Indian is between 700Elo90East So
even if the Lougitudmal difterence is 12° between locality of birth
and Si0-JO'E. The correction that we have to give will be a
maxLiroiim of 8 seconds only I.e.. (12° xt sees). As none can
  ote the time of birth cunei;! to a second and the movement of
the Zodiac is an average of 1/30 of a degree for every 4 seconds,
this calculation to conect can be conveoiently omuted)

   Add interval between previous 5-30 p.m. and timeof birth in
L.M.T.                                  - 13h—J5m—lbs
    Add correction for the lime interval
    10 seconds per bout                  —     Oh—02m—i6s

      Sidereal time at the time of birth = 24h—20m—Oils
    Deduct 24 hours                      — 4h—OOji—OOs

    Th:refore sidefe^l time at the moaaent
        of birth                         — (J0h—20m—UO.


THIRD STEP i
Find our run rasinoN of cusps :
    Takiug the table of houses ^Raphael's table of houses for
Nonberc Lsiiiudcs and relefring to the page where the cusps of
Louses are furnished for iWN twhicii is near to W0r52N i.e.,
                                 14!

Latitude of Belgaum; place of birth) It will be seen tb*t the
sidtrs-al time @ lime cf birth i e., 0h-20m-00i falls becwecQ the
two timings found in the book. They are Clh-lttin-21 and
0h-22n>02s.
    The position of cusps given in the Raphael's table of houses Is
noted below.
Sidereal Time     tOth    11th     12th   Ascendant     2od    3rd
                  cusp    cusp     cusp                cusp   cusp
Oh-18m-2 Is       5a      8°        ll0     lO'Mr       6°     4°
                 Aries    Taurus   GcmlQi Cancer       Leo    Virgo
0h-22m-02s        6°       9fl      12°   ll'.IS*      7°      5°
     The Ascendant moves from l0o-39' to ll0^' i.e., 49m. In
(^h-22tn-02)-(0h-18[D-2f5)=3 mts-ll •ec»=221 sees. The birth
is @ (h-^om 00s I.e.. 97 sees after 0h-l8ni-2ls. This racaoa that
the ascendant has moved 49' in 221 sees and'd 99 sees. It moves
49/221x99=22'. Adding 22' to the position of ascendant
(Jh-lgm-2ls, we get the position of ascendant for the required
sidereal time i.e., Ph-?0in 00s.
    Therefore Ascendant Is Cancer ll04H*.
     The other cusps moved by lo=60'during 221 Seconds. In
99 sees they move 60/221 x99=27'. Adding 27' to the position
of cusps 10th, 11th, 12th, ^nd, and 3rd at 0h-)8m>21l, we get the
pcition of cusps (tabled below) for sidereal time 0h-20ni-00s.
Mdereal time       lOtb     11th   12th   tst  2nd    2rd
                  cusp     cusp   cusp   cusp  cusp  cusp
                 Aries    Taurus Gemini Cancer Leo Virgo
0h-20m-00s       S®27'    S0-27  ll0-27' UOfM' tf-lT 4027*
     Add ISO4 to the above cusps to find out the position of cusps
for the other houses. Thus the position of all the twelve cusps
arc obtained.
     Ascendant               IP-OI'          Cancer
     2nd Cusp                  b0-2T         Leo
     3rd Cusp                  40-27'        Virgo
     4th Cusp                  5°-IT         Libra
     3th Cusp                 80-27'         Scorpio
     6th Cusp                110-27'         Sagittarius
     7ih Cusp                ilq-0i'         Capricorn
     8th Cusp                 60*27'         Aquarius
     9tb Cusp                 4°-27'         Pisces
                                    141

       10th Cusp                 50-17'            Aries
       11th Cusp                 8°- T             Taurus
       )2th Cusp                                   Gemini

     Since the horoscope is to be erected in Nirayana, we should
subtract the AyaoBmsa for the year of birth from the sayana
position of Cusps Krishnamurti's Ayaoamsa for the year 1930 is
220-4>'1 Therefore deduct 21°-AT from each cusp and tabulate
as below.

  1.    rr-or     Cancer     minus        22#-47 =          Gemiai
  2.      6-27    Leo          „            n        13-40 Cancer
  3.     4-27     Virgo        „            ■«   = I MO Leo
  4.      5-27    Libra        „                 =! 12-40 Virgo
  5'      8-27    Scorpio      „            >>      15-40 Libra
  6.    11-27     Sagittarius „            M        18-40 Scorpio
  7,    U-01      Capricorn   ,,           ft       18-14 Sagittarius
  8.      6-77    Aquarius    „            >t       13-40 Capricorn
  9.      4-27    Pisces       „           M     =« 11-40 Aquarius
 10.      5-27    Aries       „            )t    =  17-40 Pisces
 11.      8-27    Taurus      „             ff      15-40 Aries
 12.    ) '-27    Gemini      „            II       18-40 Taurus


Tea map is as follows :


                  Plices Ariel         Taurus     Gemini
                 XUMO' XI l5*-40*       XII        Arc
                                       18*-40'    UM4'


                  Aquarius                         Caoccr
                 ix n'-4u'                        It li*-40'
                             Nltsyana Position
                                    of
                                   Cusps
                 Capricorn                           Leo
                    VIIl                         III ll*-40'
                  ISMO*

                 SsgtltSTiut Scorpio   Libra
                    VU                         Virgo
                   18*-14' VI 18*H0' V I5M0' JV l2*-40'
                                 143

FOURTH STEP:
     To find out the podtion or Planets, take tLrishnamurti'o
Epbemeris for the years 1^11 to 1940 A.D. and turn over to page
117 as the birth was at 7-37 a.m. I.S.T., on II-6-1930, note down
the position of Planets given in the Epbemcrii @5-30 p.m. I.S.T.
on 10-6-1930 and 11-6-1930 so that (a) the motion of the Planets
for 24 hours between 10-6-1930, 5-30 p.m. and 11-6-1930, 5-30 p.m.
can be worked out. (b) The proportionate motion of the Planet
for 14 hours 7 minutes and 0 seconds can be calculated. The
result is to oe added to the previous day 10-6-1930, Position to
the Planets !n direct motion and the result Is to be substracted
from the position of Planets on 10-6-1930 tf the Planet on 10-6-1930
was then retrograde.

              Position  Position             i£Pf'           Actual
Planet             on      on     Difference
                                                           PositioB
              10-6-1930 11-6-1930            fe
Sun         78'-5V          79'-49'      0o-37'   08-34'   790-26'
Moon       250*-0S'        262 -36      12-31     7 -22    257 -27
Mars         35 -29         36-13        0 -44    0 -76     35 -So
Mercury      56 -37         57 -17       0-40     0-24      57 -01
Jupiter      86-14          86 -28       0-14     0-08      86 -22
Venus       109-38         110-50         1 -12   0 -42    110-20
Saturn (R) 280 -03         279-59        0-04     0-02     280-01
Rabu         30-26          30 -23       0-03     0 -02     30-24
Kethu       210-26         210-23        0 -03    0-02     210-24
Uranus       14 -43          14 -44      0-01     0-01      14 -44
Neptune     151-01         151-02         0-01    0-01     151-02
     Ayanamaa for the years 1930 iB22'-47'.
position of planets are given below.
Planets          Sayana                Deduct          Nirayana
Sun              79V26'                2'-47'
Moon            257-27                   f»            234 -40
Mats             35 -55                  1)             13 -08
Mercury           57 -0!                 IF             34-14
Jupiter           86 -22                 *>             63 -35
Venus            110-01                   FJ            87 -33
Saturn (R)      280 -01                                257 -14
Rabu              30-24                  >>              7 -37
Kethu           210 -24                  ft            187 -37
Uranus            14-14                  K             351-57
Neptune         151-02                                 128-15
                                   144

PoimoN of Fortuna:
     Longitude of Lagoa                    75'-U'
     Add Longitude of Moon                234^4o'

      Sum of Lagna & Moon                  3j2*-54'
      Deduct Longitude of Sun                56*-39

      Longitude of Fortuna                256'-15'
FIFTH STEP;
Erection of Map
                         o*         30*        60*
                          R8ha7*37'   Mercury    Jup j'-is'
                 Uraou*     Man        4°-l 4'   A acc □ dent
                 2IM7'     13*-08'   XII 18*40'    18*-14'
                X i:*-4(T XI ! 5*40' SuQlfi*-39' Vendt
                                                   27*-33*
         330'                                                   90*

                (X It*40'                          U i3*-4y

         300*                 RASI CHART                        110*
                  VIII                             Neptune
                                                     8* 15'
                                                  III HMO1
         370' Vli IE* 14'                         1J0*
              Saturn (R) Moon V 15'-40'
                17* 14'   24M0'     Rethu IV UMO'
               For tu ca VI 18'.40* 7*. 37'
                16* iy


SIXTH STEP:
Calcolaiiqn of Das a Balance at Birth :
     Moon at the time of birth was In 8* in Jycshta Star, which
extends from ZJfiMO to 240 (Scorpio). Therefore the portion
to be covered by Moon Is 5*-20=J20'. 'Mercury' has 17 yeare
of data. The Longitude of star Is 600*.
    /.The balance of Daaa at birth is 320/800x 17=6y-9m-18d.
APPRECIATION BY Mr. K.C.S.
CORRECT BIRTH TiME ; K P. GIVES THE CLUE
    Of nil the systems of birth rectification available to ua,
Rjlthnamurll Padhdbati alone enables us to fix up the correct
                                145

birtb time of a Dative or check it up wbea the rough boroscopal
chart of a person is given to us. All the methods given In this
regard lo Hindu Western System confuse and confound us. The
marvel Krisbnamurtl Padbdhati can be gauged only by
practical application. Two horoscopes of living persons are
given here. The birth time in each case has been dully verified
according to Krlshnamurti Padbdhati and the event in life tally
with the corrected horoscopes,

    (1)   Judgment on the accuracy of the cusp of lagna.

     The following chart was handed over to me for detailed
casting on 1-11-1969 at 4-23 p.m. (ISTf, at my place, CoimbBloro,


                Venus                 Budha
                 'R>.     Sva         Eeijbu
                 Sam



                            Male Barn
                           27—1—1937
                        at 5-30 p.m (ISO
                           near Palghat
                Guru
                            •

                         Moon                  1
                        Man (R)       Laina
                         Rshu


    I could not judge the above chart immediately as I had to go
somewhere. I took it up for verificattoo only at 9 p m, (ISTj on
1-11-1969 at Coimbatore.

     The ruling planets at the time of judgment are .
     SAN1      Lord of Saturday
     MOON      Lord of the Rasi where Moon transited
     SANl  Lord of the conste'latiou where moon was posited
     BUDHA Lord of the sign rising at thai time
     MARS      Lord of the constcllatioo rising in Mithuna
                                   146

     As Sukra is not at all a ruling planet, the lagna given appean
to be incorrect. When the cusp of lagna is correctly worked out
the lagna happens to fall in Kauya, Kanya is ruled by Budha.
The cODStcllaiion on tbe lagna cusp happens to be owned by
Mars. As both these planets—Mars and Mercury (Budha) were
amcng those ruling themoTnent when the matters is judged, the
time of birth is correctly recorded

    2, The following details were given to me for casting the
horoscope of a native.


               Veoui (Rj     Sun         Budha
                 Saoi                    >Kcibu




                            Corrected Chan
                 Guru


                            Fabu                  Lagna
                            Moon          '
                           Mars (R)               28°-57'


    Born                       15-5-1943
    Week day                   Saturday
    Plrce                      Tenkasl, Tamil Nadu
    Time of birth              2-45 p.m. (1ST)

    What were the ruling planets at the time of judgment V

    BUDHA         who rules Wednesday
    SURYA         who rules the rasi occupied by the Moon
    SURVA         who also rules tbe conslellatioa transited by
                  the Mood
    BUDHA         who rules the sign ICanya which was rising
    SURYA         ruling the constellation Uttlram in Kauya Ras<
                              147

        A.  Saturday, 15—5—'43
            Tcnkasl
            2-4S p.io. (War Time)
        Ase. 20° 3' Slroha             (Sun)
        Asc. star, Pooratn             (Venus)
        Mood Raai, Karyt-              (Budba)
        Star Uttiram                   (Surya)
        Day lord                       (Sani)

        B.  Saturday, 15—5'—43
            Tenkast
            2-45 p.m. (India Standard Time)
        Asc. 5* 3' Kanya              (Budba)
        Asc. star (Uttiram)           (Surya)
        Moon Rasl, Kanya              (Budba)
        Star Uttiram                  (Surya)
        Day lord                      (Sani)

     Accordiag to the ruling planets at the momeni of judgment.
Sorya Is the most powerful planet. Its sign should be the
Ascendant at the lime of birth, and so I had no besitatloo in
saying that the time of birth, given la in War Time which ii In
advance of the Standard Time by one hour
     Kriahnamutti Padhdbati can be tested any number of times,
but the results will be idential. T commend it to all the renders
for rectification of birtb times.
