=== PAGE 0001 ===
Married Life

&
‘Ghildren

FOURTH READER

Sa

K.S. KRISHNAMURTI
Vontuder } Astrolecy & Athrishin

=== PAGE 0002 ===
READER NO. IV
MARRIAGE, MARRIED LIFE & CHILDREN

Stellar Astrology

Author :

Sothida Mannan, Jyotish Marthand
K. S. KRISHNAMURTI
=== PAGE 0003 ===
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

CONTENTS

Introduction

Astrology : Is it pseudo Science?
Marriage

Dasa Porutham

Which Panchang to follow?
Dhina Porutham

Gana Porutham

Mahendra Porutham

Sthree Dheerga Porutham
Yoni Porutham

Rasi Porutham
Rasyadhipadhi Porutham
Yasya Porutham

Rajju Porutham

Vedhai Porutham

Gothram

Sakunam

Nimitham

Mars and Marriage

Mars Dosha

Time of Marriage
Marriage-Punarphoo
Happy Married Life
Pleasure with plurality of persons
Two wives

Direction and locality of partner

PAGE

17
. 19
... 20
... 28
29
31
31
33
34
... 36
... 36
Al
43
. 46

47
51

55
. 70

. 74
.. 80

. 82

..83
.. 85
=== PAGE 0004 ===
27.
28.
29.

30.
31.

32.

33.
34.
35.

36.
37.
38.

39.

40.
41.

4?.

43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
31.

52.
53.

Profession of partner
Who survives whom

To find out physical feature and
characteristic of the partner

Sub Lord of the 7th cusp
Height of my husband

Will I marry a career girl?
Chaste wife

Marriage (Western)

Marriage Denial grapes are sour
Will the wedding bell ring?
Will I marry

When will I marry

Time of marriage

Marriage, a problem

My marriage when ? Letter to the author
Separation from partner
Daughter’s wedding when ?
Son's wedding when ?

Life with wife

Married Life

Love and Life

Can I marry one whom I love ?
Will my love affairs materialise ?
Wife brings luck

Will my son-in-law contribute peace to me
and pleasure to my daughter ?

Is second marriage promised

Two marriage

PAGE

85
86

86
91
96
98
100
100
105
106
114
120
123
126
141
144
147
149
152
154
156
171
171
174

177
178
182
=== PAGE 0005 ===
547 Divorce .. 191
55, kidnapping . 198
567 Re-Union with husband-Domestic facility .. 200

57. Family life or Sanyasi . 205
58. Return and Reunion .. 207
59. Child birth .. 209
60. Is there at least one child? . 216
61. Adoption . 219
62. Pregnancy . 220
63. Eunuchs . 221
64. Marriage is made in Heavens . 221
65. Remedy Suggested .. 222
66. Any child at all .. 223
67. When will I have a child ? .. 229
68. When will my daughter deliver ? .. 233
69. When Delivery? .. 237
70. Second delivery? .. 241
71. What is wrong with my child . ~243
72. Your son is not Robert Clive . 246
73. Traditional Astrology meaningless . 251
74. Dasa-Sandhi .. 258
75. Eka Dasa .. 262
76. How to lead a successful life ? .. 264

77. Which gem can | use? .. 276
=== PAGE 0006 ===
INTRODUCTION

Everybody wants peace, pleasure and smooth life; but
nobody gets. Majority of the people complain that there is
something or other wrong regarding their health, since the
body is made up of various systems, organs, glands ete.

Similarly to enjoy peace of mind, so many factors have
to contribute. Out of them, marriage is a great problem.
Life with a healthy wife, never facing difficulties in the
married period, is very rare. However much one may be
rich, powerful and influential, unless he or she enjoys
domestic facilities, life is miserable.

Though “Marriage is made in the Heavens" and it
is impossible to dodge the fate, yet one can satisfy
oneself by making efforts to reduce the worries and
anxieties, to avoid disappointments and dispute, by
knowing his or her weaknesses and trying to adjust.

The only method by which one can understand how to
conduct oneself is explained in this book. Even- though we
pray to God whenever we expect certain adversities, yet
one should not forget that neither Gem nor Guru nor God
can guarantee the cure. Prayer has a limitation. It depends
on you and your karma. We should try fo correct ourselves.

This book is very valuable. it opens the eyes of the
readers. It makes you think, consider and decide.
Scientific treatment will satisfy you all. There will be no
confusion ; no contradiction; but this is simple, scientific,
convincing and correct.
=== PAGE 0007 ===
ASTROLOGY: IS IT PSEUDO SCIENCE?

Every now and then we come across a section of the society who ask:
"Is Astrology a science? Or is it an outworn superstition or fortune telling" ?
Most of them, really speaking, are not among its non-believers but perhaps
have some reservations regarding its scientific validity as a result of their
not too happy experience with a few quack astrologers. Another section,
swayed by uniformed prejudice, being completely ignorant of its principles
engage themselves in repudiating the star science as a pseudo-science and
decrying its practitioners without any discrimination. Yet others ascribe
belief in Astrology to infatuation or delusion,

If unmerited attacks of the above kind had been confined to
limited circles without tending to affect the atmosphere outside, the
matter should not attract any serious attention. Not so, however,
when such mischievous and malicious attacks are hurled by a few or
receive recognition in their columns. Such writings have every
likelihood of causing grievous harm as much to Astrology as to
those who practise it either as a hobby or profession. A few months
back a prominent paper chose its editorial column to dub Astrology
as a pseudo science and call its practitioners as dis-astrologers. Since
such writings are not infrequent, they call for emphatic refutation
lest they present a distorted view of the horary science and its
precepts.

Astrology is a divine science of correspondences in that it
applies cosmic principles to the minutiae of everyday life, It is a
unique system of interpretation of the correlation of planetary action
in human experience and brought to man by the same great seers and
sages who bequeathed to us great treasure houses of knowledge in
arts, philosophy, medicine, and a kindred of other sciences.
Possessed of great intellect and intuition, they noted a close
correspondence between the macrocosm or the great, world of the
Universe and the microcosm or the little world of man well
expressed in the hermetic axiom, the master key to all mysteries, "As
above, so
=== PAGE 0008 ===
4

below". The Sun, the Moon and planets have a bearing upon
everything that happens in the Solar System. Newton clearly
taught us that every particle in the Universe affects every other
particle.

Can it be imagined that these great seers who worshipped truth
and honesty manipulated Astrology with a view to defraud and
delude the posterity and perpetuate a fraud on them? Astrology has
lived through the ages in all countries - India, Egypt, Arabia, China,
Chaldea, Babylon, Rome, Greece, though, now and then, furious
men stood in its way and denigrated it.

Science may be defined as an organisation of facts which have
been coordinated and generalised into a system- It is knowledge
coming to us from noting resemblances and recurrences in the
events that happen around us. Granted this. Astrology which avers
that there is complete unity and sameness in the pursuit of planets
and mundane as well as human affairs passes this test.

What evidence is there, a materialistic mind may ask, that the
planets have any influence on human, animal and vegetable
kingdom? The secret lies in magnetism, and there is plenty of
evidence that celestial phenomena correspond with human activity
but none that planets actually cause these things to happen. But then
the basis of what follows is observation extending over a number of
years. For instance, every child knows that the Sun and the Moon by
their angular juxtaposition move oceans back and forth and cause
tides. Scientific investigations have shown that certain maritime
creatures behave in a consistent way with certain phases of the
Moon. The Moon's influence upon Feminine rhythms, both to the
menstrual cycle and duration of pregnancy, is well known.

Again, the effects of Sun spots on the weather, with
corresponding violent electrical disturbances in the earth's upper
atmosphere noticeably affecting weather and short wave radio
transmissions, arc not doubted. But in studying Sunspot and the like
and discovering the links between the Sun and the terrestrial world,
the scientists have only scratched the surface of what is already
proved, although much less widely known, as
=== PAGE 0009 ===
3

to the effect of the planetary rays. Rodney Collta observes thus:
Electronic radiation from the heavenly bodies produces molecular
change in the Earth's atmosphere, while such molecular change in the
atmosphere in turn produces cellular change in the organic bodies
dwelling therein.~ Such cellular change affects all the nine main
glands in the human body and the behaviour of these glands is
recognized by psychologists as having a bearing on human
behaviour. What has now been established by science is only a
fraction of the knowledge bequeathed to us by our ancients.

Astrology does not claim the following of only a few credulous
people wanting to know what is next in store for them. The world
knows of a number of intellectuals, philosophers, scientists and men
of medicine of great renown all the world over w ho have endorsed
the validity of Astrology and veracity. Great name in poetic world
like Dante, Shakespeare, Long-fellow Goethe, Tennyson, Milton,
Keats, Dryden, Chaucer and Spenser introduced astrological
allusions in their works. Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote “Astrology is
Astronomy brought to earth and applied to the affairs of men.” Of
what use is Astronomy to mankind unless is interpreted in terms of
our daily life and thought ? Astrology is the means whereby such
interpretation is effected. Dr. Charles Nordman expressed the
opinion that “X-rays coming from the stars which abundantly emit
these rays exercise influence on the life organisms of each of us".
The distinguished Danish Astronomer Tycho Brahe used his
astronomical knowledge in his astrological studies. Tycho’s fruitful
research on the motions of the planets later led Johannes Kepler of
great fame in the astronomical world to discover his three immortal
laws which contain implicitly the law of universal gravitation which
were not fully understood by ‘laymen’ like those who seek to censor
Astrology at every conceivable opportunity expounded by the logic
of Newtown's dynamics. What has Kepler to say of Astrology ?
“Man” said he, "is made from the elements and absorbs them as
much as food and drink, from which it follows that man must also,
like the elements, be subject to the influence of planets". That He
did not rush into Astrology blindly is amply clear for, he himself
says, “the planets forming angles upon the earth by
=== PAGE 0010 ===
6

their luminous beams, of strength to stir up the virtue of sub-lunary
things, have compelled my unwilling "belief" These words are not
such as would be used by one who had fallen under a delusion or
infatuation. The great Sir Issac Newton who followed Kepler's laws
and enunciated the law of universal gravitation as it was known to
many at that time (though there is more than ample reference to the
law of gravity in the immortal Indian work ASIDDHANTA
SHIROMANI' of Bhaskaracharya written many centuries before
that time of which we can justly be, proud) was so convinced of the
truth of the astrological science that when his astronomer friend
Hally spoke disparagingly of the planetary influences on terrestrial
affairs, Sir Isaac retorted in the famous words, "Sir, 1 have studied
these things ; you have not". Where Astrology a pseudo science,
would men so scientific as Kepler, Newton and Tycho have
hesitated for a moment in saying so openly? Surely, the verdict of a
trained scientific mind must carry more weight than the illogical
assertions of less qualified men.

According to Dr. Carl G. Jung, the great Swiss psychologist,
"There are some facts adequately tested and fortified by a wealth of
statistics which may give the astrological problem some weight
worthy of philosophic investigation. Astrology is assured of
recognition! from psychology without further repercussions. In the
U.S.A., astrologers of repute co-operate with meteorologists in
forecasting weather and such an intelligent approach has saved the
States of a large sum of money. O'Nell, Science Editor of the New
York Herald Tribune, advises his scientist companions not to look
down on Astrology but instead raise their eyes to take in the higher
horizons that Astrologers have preserved for them- Hippocrates,
hailed as the father of medicine, went as far as to assert that a doctor
without astrological knowledge cannot safely administer medicine,
implying thereby that the state of the disease, its course and the time
of recovery can be inferred from a look as the patient's horoscope.
Even today physicians everywhere mark in their prescriptions the
symbol of Jupiter as an invocation to the god of medicine and
healing according to Hippocrates. "A physician without knowledge
of Astrology is like a lamp without oil" said Another. A host of
other eminent
=== PAGE 0011 ===
7

Medical men like Nicholas Culpepert Michael Nostrodamus and
Paracelsus have also advocated adequate astrological knowledge for
accurate disease diagnosis.

There are many more famous names associated with
Astrology in the great horary past and many more in the
glorious present all the world over and a science which is good
enough for these great men of science and intellect and compelled
their reluctant admiration is a taboo to pseudo thinkers, who, unlike
men of science conscious of the danger of the principle of conduct
which condemns a thing prior to its investigation, deny the validity
of Astrology having made no attempt to study the subject, an
omission that renders them liable to be charged with intellectual
dishonesty.

If only they turn to an argued survey of the foundations of this
illustrious and useful science, they will find themselves in the
company of critic-turned-cruisader of Astrology, Rev. John Butler,
rector of Litchborough, England. As the world knows, Rev. John
Butler was one of those who was greatly disappointed with the way
Astrology had taken hold on the minds of men and wanted to
discredit it and demolish its doctrines. A prolonged study, however,
led him to the opposite direction and he ended up as a great
protagonist of the science. Said he, it begot in me a reverence for
these grey hairs which unjustly and as ignorantly I had despised."

We can offer no explanation to the weal and woe we
experience in our lease of life if a previous state of existence in
which their seeds have been sown, is denied. Verily, the author
of the "Light of Asia" echoes the truth when be sings "Each
man's life the outcome of his former living is ; the bygone
wrongs bring forth sorrows: the bygone right breeds bliss."
Mark St. Paul's words, "Be not deceived, God is not mocked :
for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." The same is
epitomized in the text "Every man shall bear bis own burden." And
so all our pain and pleasure are of our own making and the wrongs
indulged in by us in the past yield us woe in the present, and if the
present circumstances appear to be rigidly defined in such a way to
appear to us as fated, it is the surest possible indication that our
‘fate’ has been brought
=== PAGE 0012 ===
8

about by the exercise of one's so-called free will in the post.
Astrology provides the key to this enigma and reveals what Is
in store for us in the present state of existence. A horoscope,
in other words, is the heavenly view at any particular time and,
as Dr. C. G. Jung says "A person is of the vintage of the time he
was bor and like the vintage of wine it cannot be changed.*'

When one quotes for any purpose from great poets or
scientists or from great works, he should endeavour to grasp the
spirit of the saying rather than the spoken word so as to avoid
presentation of distorted meaning. Thus when Shakespeare had his
King Lear say. “It is the stars, the stars above us govern our
condition" and when he made another of bis character remark "The
fault is not in thy stars but in thyself" he did not contradict himself,
but gave us a bit of sound advice that we should strive to overcome
our lower nature and develop right attitudes of mind and conduct
lest we may not fall again and curse the stars. One person said
"What a glorious power is given to man ; never to do any action of
which God will not approve and to welcome whatever God appoints
for him," Every man is his own master and reaps in time what he
has sown.

But actually, we enjoy or suffer according to our
past Karma. We may presume that we are our own masters.

"To everything there is a season,
And a time to every purpose under the heaven,
A time to be born, and a time to die,
A time to plant, and a time to pluck up."

What kind of a personality we have brought over as the karmatic
inheritance of our activities in previous lives, we may learn only
from a study of Astrology. It is also able to inform us our inherent
tastes desires and capacities, our mental, psychic and physical
peculiarities, our limitations. our possibilities of growth and our
aspirations. In essence, it marks the Time when the postulated
events will happen in the life of every human being.
=== PAGE 0013 ===
MARRIAGE

1. Of all our enterprises, the most serious one is our
marriage. This world itself will be a Heaven or a Hell,
depending on one's state of married life.

Marriage is a matter of more worth
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship.
For what is wedlock forced but a hell
An age of discord and continual strife ?
Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
And is a pattern of celestial peace.

Shakespeare

Only astrologers can certify this statement as wholly true, as
many married couples individually meet the astrologers, narrate
their difficulties, and try to find out a solution. Also, the brides
as well as the bachelors, consult the astrologers to know (a) when
they will get married, (b) whether the partner will be healthy,
wealthy, accommodative, adjusting, etc. Look at the anxiety of most
of the married people to be freed from bondage and also that of the
unmarried, to get a good partner- When one witnesses the horrible
life of the married couple, one would prefer to remain a bachelor :
but when one finds the disadvantages of the bachelor's life one
would welcome marriage. In both, there are advantages and
disadvantages; pleasure and pain.

Yet married life is preferred, as

1. Marriage is not based on sentiments but on religious,
moral, social and scientific principles.’

2. Jt has immense potency and contributes for long span
of life.

3. The holy Vedas teach us that the married life is superior
to either life-long celibate or an ascetic,
=== PAGE 0014 ===
10

4. The wife is the presiding goddess of the house called
Graha Lakshmi.

5. The wife is not for mere pleasure and enjoyment. It is she
who bears children, performs household duties, partakes in
religious functions, nurses all relatives whenever they are
ill.

That is why, in the religious scriptures, the Aryans had
repeatedly said that the family in which the ladies are unhappy and
dissatisfied, will perish, whereas the family in which they are
honoured, respected, will attended to, and the ladies are happy, will
prosper year after year. One is considered to be fortunate if one has
a pleasing and accommodative wife ; But if she happens to be
arrogant and argumentative, adamant and atrocious, how can they
lead a harmonious wedded life? What an unfortunate fellow be is ?

Astrologers, in their experience, come across with many a
marriage, speaking more of matrimonial miseries than of
harmony and happiness.

System of Marriage: Amongst the Aryans, there were eight
forms of marriage, where as these differ amongst the other civilised
nations.

Of the 8 forms which were in vogue long ago, only one at
present exists. It is called Prajapatya form. According to this, the
bride is given to a bridegroom, saying that they will ever remain as
partners to do religious duties, and lead a happy married life. It was
strictly prohibited to give or take money from the bride's party. Who
cares for this advice, nowadays ?

A person is not allowed to marry during his student life.
After completing his studies, be has to obtain permission from
his Guru-Preceptor and parents, and marry a good girl of his
own caste, and not own Gothra. Sapindya was in force.

Further they made selections after thoroughly examining the
Girl's family and also finding astrologically whether the bride and
bridegroom will lead a happy, harmonious and healthy life for long
number of years.
=== PAGE 0015 ===
11

Girl's family; The bridegroom is not allowed to marry a girl
born in the HEENAKARI FAMILY in which the members do
not observe the religious rites or in the family, where all
members are illiterates, called Nischanda family or in
Gishpurusha family, where the bride has no brother or in the
family in which the members suffer or suffered from T.B.,
hysteria, asthma, leprosy etc.

Also it is advised that the girls who are named after a bird,
tree, hill, star or river, are given another name.

Among the ancient Aryans, there was no early marriage. Nor
any person was allowed to marry a girl older than him. Manu
preferred the difference of age between the husband and the wife to
be ten years.

Regarding the selection of the bridegroom or the bride, it
varied widely, in India,

1- The princess was allowed to have her marriage by
ISwayamVaram" making her own choice among the princes
assembled in a hall.

2. The prince may meet any bride, fall in love with her
and immediately take her as wife by 'Gandarva Vivaham~,

3. Others celebrated the marriage by observing any one of
the following : —

(a) The parents are informed that there is a mutual agreement
between the bride and the bridegroom. If they really love each
other so much, as Mandaya Maharishi observes "Mano Jayanthu
Mandavyo" the parents used to fix the marriage and celebrate it on an
auspicious day at an auspicious time,

(b) a few used to bring to the notice of a good-natured,
God-fearing and law-abiding "Vipra" gentleman,
"BRAHMIN", and on obtaining his approval, they celebrated the
marriage of a couple following Janardhana Maharishi's
advice. "Vibra Vakyo Janardhana: "

(c) Brahaspathi stressed on Sagunam-Omens. So “Sagunanthu
Brahaspathi" is followed by some people. When the parents desire to
fix and celebrate the marriage, they
=== PAGE 0016 ===
12

observe the omens. If it is good, they proceed and celebrate. But if
there is ill-omen, the alliance naturally falls through,

(d) Those who have completely surrendered to God, and those
who have more faith in Him than in anything else, pray to God and
place some coloured flowers, pick out one of them and if the desired
colour is obtained, the marriage is celebrated. Otherwise, it is
stopped without any other consideration.

(e) Most of the people in India used to consult the astrologers
to find out the longevity, prosperity, progeny, harmony, happiness,
health and agreement among the couple, and whether there is Dasa
Porutham between the two. Only when the astrologer approved they
consider the alliance and proceed further. The truth is that according
to one's fate whomsoever one is destined to marry, is selected, and
the marriage is celebrated. In India, after marriage, the bride leaves
her parents and lives with her husband in the husband's quarters.

(f) There are a few uncivilized people in hilly tracts. The
proposed bridegroom will be requested to live with the bride for a
year and he is given a trial. If he proves to be alright, the bridegroom
is allowed to marry her. Otherwise, he is rejected and this procedure
will go on, till she finds a suitable partner. Look at the lot of the
person. Only when a girl approves, he can have his wedding. Poor
boy!

(g) But amongst the Congo and some more tribes, the bride is
taken upon trial for twelve months, and if she is not found to be
good she will be sent beck to her parents.

(h) in Formosa, the bride will take up the lead. she goes out,
selects a person, marries him and takes him to her father's house.
The bridegroom is considered to be one of the family members. So
also, the boys boy in that family will be selected by others girls,
married by them and taken away by them to their families.

(i) In other nations, the boy and the girl will fall in love
with each other, have them engaged and later get married.

(i) In Lapland, the selection of the partner is funny. The male
and the female are asked to run a race. The girl will be given a
handicap of one-third the distance. If the boy wins her
=== PAGE 0017 ===
13

in the race he can have her. Otherwise he loses the chance with this
girl. If the girl does not like the boy, probably she will run very fast,
with strong determination to see that the boy is not able to overtake
her. But if the girl likes the boy, she probably, will adjust her speed
and allow him to overtake her.

There are many funny ones like this

Nowadays, some people may marry for love, some for
position and rank, some for fortune, etc If one understands
the partner and tries to adjust, then it will be possible to lead the
married life without losing one's prestige and honour which also is
under the pattern of destiny.

In our experience we have found that he who loves a girl and
marries her, takes her as his wife. But if he marries for fortune, then
she will behave like a mistress. If the selection is made more for
position and rank, then she will pose herself as a lady. A real wife
will return your love?. But the mistress will have some regard to
you, where is the lady whom you married for position will tolerate.
The loving wife lives for you and she is your wife. But a mistress
attends to the house and her friends, and the lady will lead a social
life and spend much of her time in the society. Your wife will never
differ from you but ever comply with your request. You will be
ruled by the mistress and managed by the lady Consider how the
real wife whom you loved and married takes care of your household,
whereas the mistress will look after your house and the lady your
appearance. Even if you feel lazy to have the hair dressing, the lady
will force you to attend to it ; if you put on any old and torn one, she
will give you a good dress and once for all dispose of the torn ones
to the eversilver hawkers, in the street.

If your health fails and you are admitted in a nursing home you
cannot get a better nurse than your wife ; but your mistress will pay
visit during the hours allowed for the public. and your lady will
inquire about your health through the car driver or office attendant,
etc. Generally the loving couple will find pleasure by having
evening walk ; whereas the mistress will give you a ride in her car, if
the time suits her and if you make a request, vhereas the lady will
take you to a party given by her. If you
=== PAGE 0018 ===
14

are in distress, your wife will share the grief. The mistress will share
your money and the lady will contribute to your debts. You cannot
observe the following but it is a fact. If you die, your wife will cry
and weep; your mistress will lament. But the lady will put on the
mourning dress for some hours.

Bacon says : "Wives are young men's mistress ;
companions for middle age :
and old men's nurses"

According to Varahamihira,

Loving wife will clear her throat loudly, laugh only in the
presence of the husband, rise towards him from her seat, request
her husband to get her trivial and easily available articles,
embrace and kiss their child in the presence of her husband, cast
glances at her husband when he looks anywhere else, be mentioning
his virtues, speak sweetly with him, spend that money which she has
for his sake, feel very happy and delighted on seeing him, forget her
anger, wink over his mistakes, extol his good qualities pay much
respect to her husband's friends, hate his foes, give expression to her
gratitude to her husband for all the good he had done, feel lonely
and miserable in his absence, offer him whatever he wants without
any delicacy, embrace him, kiss him first, etc. Only lucky people
can have such a wife.

But a living lady will put on a frowning face, turn away her
face from the husband, or at least hold open a newspaper preventing
her from seeing him, forget all the benefits done by him to her,
neglect the presence of the husband, ignore him, mingle with her
husband's enemies, be harsh if he interferes, assume arrogance but
help her husband whenever he goes away, feel more happy and free
in his absence, wipe off the mouth if ever he kisses or spit away
without delay, go to bed first and get up last. Unless one has
committed enough sin in the previous birth, one cannot have a
woman of this type as wife who lives only to enjoy her life. This is
the fate of the worst sinner.

Even though marriage is pre-ordained by the Almighty
providence and one has no control at all, over the selection of one's
partner in life yet, there are many who consult astrologers to find out
the probable bride or bridegroom, the time of marriage and the state
of married life.
=== PAGE 0019 ===
15

Of them, a few do not know even the year of birth. For
them our sages have given out a simple method of ascertaining his
or her nakshathra by taking the first alphabet of their names and
then judging the compatibility by applying "Dasa Porutham". It
should not be given much importance, as nowadays the names are
not given by the parents taking into consideration the nakshathra or
star or the constellation in which Moon was at the time of birth.
Further it is not correct. Because one may marry a girl called
Lakshmi and It may be rejected and hated by another Lakshmi. A
girl may marry Rama and try to divorce him as she loves another
Rama. This method is useless. Look ! Rama married Sita. Ravana
carried away Sita.

Another method also cannot fe much relied upon. Horoscopes
are erected for the time of maturity of the bride and they are
compared with the birth charts of the bridegrooms. How far the time
taken to cast the horoscopes, can be correct is left for you to
consider.

But it is advisable to cast the horoscopes of both the boy and
the girl using "Drik" method of calculations: or by using Raphael's
ephemeris and then erecting Nirayana charts by deducting
Ayanamsa from the Sayana chart, using Krishnamurti ayanamsa.

The horoscope of each has to be judged individually for
longevity, health, finance, fortune, children, harmony. mutual
affection, temperament etc.

This deep study is more important than Dasa Porutham. If the
charts promise long life with health and happiness to both, then even
if dasa porutham is tacking, the married life will be absolutely
satisfactory. But if the strength of a horoscope is unsatisfactory and
either longevity or harmony is denied, even if all the poruthams -
(the so-called dasa porutham) are excellent, how can one expect
happy wedded life for a least some years? Is there any meaning in
painting a collapsing wall? How can one erect superstructure when
the foundation is very weak? If the beautiful tuft of a lady can be
compared to the longevity and happiness in married life, a flower
can be compared to dasa porutham; the flower can add beauty, only
when there is the tuft. When there is no tuft, how can you make use
of the
=== PAGE 0020 ===
16
flower? Similarly dasa porutham alone cannot give happy life
for a long period if the horoscopes are not good, individually

1. Longevity: Therefore, before proceeding to observe
Dasa porutham, find out whether long span of life is promised to
both of them. Is it not foolish to select a horoscope for wedding if he
or she is short-lived ?

2. Health: What is the use of inviting colic patients for a
feast or taking a blind man to an exhibition or park; or taking a deaf
fellow to a music concert or offering him a stenographer's post; or
presenting an elephant to a beggar ? So also, giving a girl in
marriage to an unhealthy boy is not wise. Still worse will be to
many an unhealthy girl. Disease will never keep them at ease, nor
allow them to enjoy and lead pleasant life.

3. Finance; It is said that money makes many things.
At least by having satisfactory bank position, one can try to please
the partner and purchase peace. If there is no income, poverty will
cause miseries in married life. People, having income, much less
than the minimum necessity to run a family, can better remain
unmarried than to spoil the life of the partner. Therefore, astrologers
will scrutinise this point also. Anyhow, this advice is meaningless as
none can change fate.

4. Future : One might have been born poor. But yet, the
future will be much promising. In such cases, the parents will be
informed about the bright future of the couple and the alliance will
be recommended, it is good. Do not exaggerate. Speak the truth.

5. Children; Just like trees with beautiful flowers and
fruits, tanks with lotus and the sky with full Moon can offer pleasant
feeling to one, so also the children at home will contribute for the
happiness of the couple. Our sages believe in the production of
many children, and hence they bless the couple to have ("Bahu
Puthra Labam"). A person may have all comforts in his life. Yet the
life is incomplete, if he has no child. Especially in his or her last
days. He or she will have a feeling similar to an occupant of a hotel
room, vacating It leaving behind all those comforts he enjoyed there
temporarily as long
=== PAGE 0021 ===
17

as he stayed there. Life In this world is similar to one's
temporary stay in a hotel.

6. Harmony; One can have long life. He may also
maintain robust health. But his or her life is a Hell, if there is
no good understanding among themselves. They should know
that unity is strength. They should realise that each should
contribute happiness to the other. If there is no understanding,
mental worry, financial trouble, debts, difficulties etc., will be
ever increasing. We have seen many instances where the couple will
be ever quarreling but never failed to have children once in 18
months. What a life it is? He is a Nil Man or animal.

Therefore an astrologer has to scrutinise the horoscopes
individually for the above six points. When all the above are
satisfactory, then alone, it is advisable to look to the Dasa Porutham.
According to me, it is useless and meaningless.

Dasa Porutham :

“‘DINAM GANAMCHA MAHENDRAM
STHREE DHEERGAM YONIREVACHA
RASI RASIADHIPATHI BOWVASYAM
RAJJUR VEDHACHA DHE DHASA'

The ten agreements which are generally observed are

1. Dhina Porutham

2. Gana Porutham

3. Mahendra Porutham

4. Sthree Dheerga Porutham
5. Yoni Porutham

6. Rasi Porutham

7. Rasyadhipathi Porutham
8. Vasya Porutham

9. Rajju Porutham
10. Vedhai Porutham

1. Dhina Porutham :

"Dhinath Ayushyam Arogyam ’”
“Brahmananam Dhinam Sreshtam”

If there is Dhina Porutham between the bride's star and that
of the bridegroom, if they get married, they can have health for
=== PAGE 0022 ===
18

long number of years. Whether other agreements are satisfactory
or not, Brahmins give more importance of Dhina Porutham.

If according to an individual chart, long life is not promised,
but he or she marries on the strength of Dhina Porutham, how can
this agreement offer him long life. That is why, we emphatically,
suggest to look to the longevity, health, prosperity etc., in each
horoscope separately.

2. Gana Porutham:

“Sobhanam Ganamevacha
Kshathriyanam Ganam dhatha"

To lead a pleasant and happy life with social and pleasant
functions etc., this agreement is necessary. Kshatriyas consider this
as very important.

3. Mahendra Porutham :
“Mahendhrath Puthra Vridhisyath"

If there is Mahendra Porutham among the couple, it indicates
that they will have children. If a boy's horoscope denies birth of
children to him how can he have any, even if he marries a girl with
Mahendhra Porutham.

4. Sthree Dheerga Porutham :
"Sthree Dheergath Sama Sampath "

If there is Sthree Dheerga Porutham, they can enjoy all
the fruits of life in this world.

5. Yoni Porutham :

"Yoni tho Dhampath Soehhaha,
Soothranam Yonir evacha.’*

For good understanding, happiness and harmony among the
couple, this agreement is necessary. Non-brahmins consider this
agreement to be more important than others.

6. Rasi Porutham :

"Raseenam Vamsa Vriddhi,
Rasi maithranthu Vai Syanam"
=== PAGE 0023 ===
19

If there is Rasi agreement, the couple will be blessed with
children. Business people desire this most.

7 Rasyadhipathi Porutham :

Santhanam 'Rasi adhipathi". This agreement also indicates birth
of children and prosperity.

8. Vasya Porutham :
"Vasyath anyonya Vasyakam.”

Mutual attraction and affection promising inseparable
temperament is shown by this agreement.

9. Rajju Porutham :
"Rajjur MangalyaVridhisyath.”
This Porutham gives courage to the girl that her husband

will outlive her after leading the wedded life for long number of
years.

10. Vedhai Poratham :
“Vedhaya Soka Nasanam.”

If there is no Vedha, there will be no evil effects in married
life. They will not feel sorry for having had such match.

Thus, there are ten methods of ascertaining the various
aspects of married life.

Half baked knowledge is dangerous. A few are under wrong
impression that every porutham indicates harmony among the
couple. It is incorrect. Further, these agreement are given in the
local almanacs. Some people go through only those mentioned
briefly in the almanacs, find out whether there is agreement or not
and give freely their opinion. Honestly we feel that they cannot
commit a worse sin than this. They are strongly advised not to offer
any opinion unless they have a thorough knowledge and vast
experience.

Which Panchang to follow to erect the horoscopes.

In India, innumerable almanacs are available. The authors
follow any one of the 18 siddhantas. Therefore charts erected to
=== PAGE 0024 ===
20

the same birth using different almanacs differ much. The
Nakshathras will be different. There may be change in the rasi. The
dasa bhukti balance at the time of birth do not agree. Thus no two
almanacs give the same position of planets.

As Drik System is astronomically correct, follow Drik system
alone and erect the horoscopes, of those which are to be matched for
matrimonial purposes. If you use Raphael Ephemeris deduct
Krishnamurti ayanamsa; you will get Drik position, Any other
ayanamsa, differing much, is useless and absurd.

1. Defect in Dasa Porutham : While judging the horoscopes
one does not take into consideration, the Ascendant-Lagna and the
position of other planets. Only the Moon's position (1.e.—the star
and the rasi alone) is considered. It is incomplete and the prediction
offered cannot come true in the state of married life. Dasa porutham
itself is meaningless Every rule has a contradiction or exception.

this method is useful only for those who do not know the
correct time of birth but somehow remember his or her star,

1. Dina Porutham. Here, "Dhina" means Nakshathra or
star of the bride and bridegroom.

In Kalaprakasika it is observed that one has to count the
Nakshathra of the bride as 1, the next star to her star as 2 the next 3
and so on ; count up to the star of the boy include his star also.
Suppose a girl is born in Karthikai and the boy in Rohini then you
have to count Karthikai as one and Rohini as 2. So the boy's star is
the second from that of the girl. If the girl is born in Karthikai and
the boy in Punarvasu, one has to count Karthikai 1, Rohini 2,
Mrigaseerisham 3, Thiruvadhirai 4 and Punarvasu 5, thus including
both the stars ofthe bride and bride-groom and say that his star is the
5th from that of the girl.

Whether to count from the star of the girl or from that of the
boy is a 1 so in controversy. Some count from that of the bride-
groom and most of the scholars count only from that of the bride. In
Kalaprakasika it is said that the counting must be commenced from
that of the Girl ("Sthree Janma Dharam Arabya") Another author
observes as "Vathoo Nakshathram Arabya", Therefore we have Io
count only from the star of the girl.
=== PAGE 0025 ===
21

There are totally 27 stars. So the boy's star, may be either
the same star of the girl or any one between 2 and 27.

For Dhina Porutham, it is easy to divide the 27 stars into three
groups, The first group will commence from the girl's star and end
with the 9th, then again the 10th is counted as one, the 11th as two
and so on till 18. The 19th star from that of the girl is counted as
one, the 20th as 2 and so on and the 27th will be counted as the 9th.

The stars from | to 9 are said to be in the first pariyaya. Those
between 10 and 18 are said to be in the second pariyaya; 19th to
27th stars are in the third pariyaya.

The star of the person is said to be Janma Nakshatra : the 10th
star is called Anujanma Nakshathra : the 19th star is Thrijanma. If
Aswini is the star of the boy or girl, Makam will be Anujanma and
Moolam Thrijanma.

If Barani is the star of either, Poorvapalguni is
Anujanma and Poorvashada is Thrijanma.

If Karthikai is the star of one, Uthrapalguni it Anujanma
and Uthrashada is Thrijanma. Thus one has to observe.

Suppose one is bom in Poorvashada. Then Poorvashada
is Janma, bharani Anujanma and Poorvapalguni Thrijanma.

If one is born in Makam star, Makam is Janma, Moolam is
Anujanma and Aswini is Thrijanma. The following table may be
useful:

Janma Anujanma Thrijanma
Aswini Makam Moolam
Barani Pooram Pooradam
Karthikai Uthiram Uthiradam
Rohini Hastham Sravanam
Mrigaseerisha Cinthrai Dhanishta
Arudhra Swathi Sathayam
Punarvasu Visakam Pooruttadhi
Pushyam Anusham Uthirattadhi

Ashlesha Jyeshta Revaiti
=== PAGE 0026 ===
22

The star of a person is called Janma: The second is
"Sampath" (Prosperity); the third Vipath (danger) ; the 4th
Kshemam (happy); the 5th Prathyaram (undesirable): the 6th is
Sadhakam (favourable) : 7th is Called Vatham (torture, massacre);
the 8th is Maithram (friendly- and the 9th star is parama Maithram
(intimate friendship) Thus in each pariyaya, the 2nd is sampath, the
3rd Vipath, the 4th Kshemam and so on.

How to Judge whether there is Dhina Porutham or not ?
The Best agreement-(uttamam)

Count the star from that of the girl. The star of the boy
may be in the first or the second or the 3rd pariyaya. Whatever be
the pariyaya, if the star of the boy is the Sadhaka 6th or Kshema the
4th or Paramamaithra the 9th they agree most satisfactorily.

(6, 15. 24; 4, 13, 22 ; 9, 18, 27 stars agree)

Maddhimam-Moderate agreement:
Janma, Anujanma, Thirujanma stars.
Sampath the second, Maithram the 18th are auspicious.
(1, 10, 19 ; 2, 11, 20 ; 8, 17, 26 stars also agree)

Special rule; if the boy's Star is 3 or 5 or 7 in the first
pariyaya, they do not concord.

If the boy's star is the 3rd in the second pariraya, reject only the
first quarter of the star i.e., the boy's star may be 12 from that of the
girl. If his birth would have been in the first quarter, discard it. If the
birth were to be in the 2nd, 3rd or 4 th pada or quarter of the star you
can match them. They agree. If the boy's star is the Sth star in the
second pariyaya, only the 4th pada is to be rejected. So also do not
match if the boy is born in the 3rd pada of the seventh star in second
pariyaya counted from that of the girl. Other padas agree.

If the star of the boy is in the 3rd pariyaya reject if the star of
the boy is in the 4th pada. A few authors allow the 7th star in the 3rd
pariyaya and a few reject it.
=== PAGE 0027 ===
23

But, we consider the whole horoscope and if the lord of the 7th
star is a benefic, we do match it but if the lord of the 7th star rules
evil houses, we reject it outright.

(e. g.) Suppose one is born in Leo or Simha Lagna. Her star is
either Barani or Poorvapalguni or Poorvashada star. Then the lord of
her star is Venus-Sukra. The 7th star in the third pariyaya to Barani
is Uthirattadhi; the 7th star in the third pariyaya to Poorvapalguni is
Pushyam and that to Poorvashada is Anuradha. These three stars
Pushyam, Anuradha and Uthra pada are governed by Saturn. As
Simha or Leo is the Lagna- Ascendant, Saturn rules the 6th and the
7th houses, it is evil to those born in Simha. Hence reject.

But if the Lagna-Ascendant is Taurus-Rishaba, for which
Saturn is a benefic, match the horoscopes.

Suppose Uthrapalguni first pada was the star of the bride, Moon
will be in Simha. The trine stars Karthikai, Uthiram and Uthiradam
are ruled by sun. The seventh stars in the third pariyaya to there
three stars are Revathi, Ashlesha and Jyeshta. If the Lagna of the
girl, is Taurus, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Capricorn, we
say that Mercury the lord of Revathi etc., is a benefic to these
Lagna-borms; Hence the girl born in Uthrapalguni first pada can
marry one born in Ashlesha ; or one born in Uthrashada first pada
will concord with Jyeshta ; or one born in Karthikai star will agree
with Revathi husband. But if the Lagna is Mesha, Mercury is the
lord of 3 and 6. To Scorpio, Mercury is lord of 8 and 11 and so on.
Hence Mercury is definitely an evil and we do not approve the
matching of the brides born in Sun's star with the bridegroom born
in Mercury's star.

Twenty seventh star :-Special rule :

"Saptha Vimsadhipam Thyajyam”.
Binna Rasi Gatham Yathi"

If the star of the boy is the 27th when counted from that of the
bride and if Moon were to be in the same sign in their horoscope,
they concord ; But if the Moon sign of the boy is the 12th to that of
the girl they do not concord. Suppose one is born in Makam star.
Then the Moon will be in Leo-Simha. If the boy
=== PAGE 0028 ===
24

is born in Ashlesha, Moon will be in Cancer-Kataka.
According to this rule they do not agree. But if the bride is
born in Ashlesha having Moon in Cancer, she can marry one
born in the 27th star Pushyam with Moon in Cancer according
to this rule. One has to reject a boy bor in Chithirai first half
having Moon in Virgo, but select a boy born in Chithirai
second half with Moon in Libra-Thulam, for girls born in
Swathi Nakshathra when Moon will be in Libra-Thulam.

If the star of the bride and the bride-groom is one and the
same, a few can be matched and some are not approved by our
sages : even here, there are some controversial statements.

Uthaman Excellent: If their stars were to be either Rohini
or Arudhra or Makam or Hastham or Visakam or Sravanam or
Uthirattadhi or Revathi tbe agreement is excellent.

Maddhimam Moderate : If both are born in the same star and
if it were to be either Aswini or Karthikai or Mrigaseerisha or
Pushya or Poorvashada or Uthrashada, the agreement is
moderate. They do agree.

Athamam Useless: If both are born in any one of the
following stars, reject. They are Bharani, Ashlesha,
Swathi, Jyeshta, Moolam, Dhanishta, Sathabisha and
Poorvapathrapada. Therefore, if the nakshathra of the boy and
the girl is same, the first mentioned 8 stars are excellent, the
next 11 stars are fair whereas the 8 stars in the third group are to

be ignored ‘star: but Moon in different signs: Suppose Karthikai is

the star of both the bride and bridegroom. Moon may be in Aries-
Mesha or Taurus-Rishaba. You can match fa) if both have Moon in
Aries or (b) if both have Moon in Taurus or (cl if the bride has
Moon in Aries and the bridegroom in Taurus. You should not match
a girl having Moon in Taurus in Karthikai star with a boy born in
Karthikai star but having Moon in Aries.

“Vatham and Vainasikam:”

If the boy's star is the 7th when counted from that of the
girl it is termed as “Vatham”. Naturally the girl's star is 2nd
when counted from the Star of the boy and it is called
=== PAGE 0029 ===
25

“Vainasikam”. Such a combination does not receive the
approval of the sages. But there is some exception and the effect of
celebrating such a marriage is exhaustively dealt with by Kasyapa
Maharishi.

He warns the girls born in the six stars Karthikai, Ashlesha,
Chithirai, Anuradha, Dhanishta and Sathabisha not to marry the boys
bom in the 7stars, Ashlesha, Swathi, Poorvashada, Dhanishta, Barani
and Karthikai. He expects the married life to be very short.

But he approves tbc match between a girl born in Arudhra,
Poorvapalguni and Pushya and the boy born in the 7th star counted
from them.

Also he adds:

1. Happiness and birth of children are promised if
Punarvasu girl marries Hastham boy.

2. Just opposite results will be experienced by a "Jyeshta
girl if she takes a Sathayam boy as her husband.

3. Mrigaseerisha girl will lose early her husband born in
Pooram

4. So also Hastham girl should not venture to marry a
Moolam boy.

5. Many children are born to Rohini girls by marrying
Makam boy.

6. Similarly, Poorattati girl will be the mother of many
issues if her husband is born in Rohini.

7. Aswini girls get dejected bv having many daughters, one
after the other, by accepting a Punarvasu partner.

8. Swathi girls give consolation to Aswini girl as she also
brings forth many daughters as her husband would have been
born in Uthiradam star (the 7th).

9. Revathi girls with Arudhra boys and Uthrapalguni girls
with Jyeshta boys do not lead a happy life. There will be no
understanding among the couple. Gradually, they develop
hatred and sooner or later decide once for all to be ever
inimical. A few will get separated. In other countries, they
will have frequent divorces.
=== PAGE 0030 ===
26

10. if the girl's star is Makam, she will have children, but
they will be wicked.

11. Visaka girl will hate Sravanam husband.
12. Sravanam girls will divorce Aswini boys,

13. Uthirattadhi girls lose their husbands early by
marrying the boys botn in the 7th star.

14. Uthiradam girls enjoy all the fruits of life in this world
by marrying the boys born in the 7th star.

15. Poorvashada girls develop more and more of affection
towards their husbands and lead a happy life.

16. Barani star girls, when fortunate, take Pushyam
star boys.

Thus sage Kasyapa has given his findings so that one can
boldly select or reject the 7th star.

Auntie's Proverbs: Learned astrologers have observed that
no evil result is indicated whatever be the star of the Boy. His
star may be any one of the 27 stars. 1 here is no malefic effect.

But girls born in certain nakshathras indicate certain un-
desirable results. Such stars are only four in number. They are
Moolam, Ashlesha, (Kettai)-Jyeshta and Visakam. Even then only
when Moon was in a particular pada or quarter of the nakshathra it is
considered to be evil.

Danger to father-in-law is threatened by Moolam first pada
bride. Evil to mother-in-law indicated by Ashlesha Ist pada
girl. Jyeshta Ist pada bride is dangerous to her elder brother- in-law.
But Visakam 4th pada girl shows anxiety to her younger brother-in-
law. The other padas are not harmful. That is all what our sages have
said.

But certain wicked people compose some dirty proverbs
and reject the offer of a bride born in any one of tbe 4 stars. They do
not consider anything else. Let me quote one or two proverbs.

"Pen Moolam Nir Moolam". That is, girls born in Moolam
star are very unfortunate and wherever she goes, will take with
=== PAGE 0031 ===
27

her "misfortune". In reality, there is no truth in
such proverbs. It is absurd.

They used to add “Aun Moolam Arasalum". That is, boy
born in Moolam star will rule the kingdom. One in 27 of the
population will be born in Moolam and half of them may be males.
We do not know to which kingdom they are the lords, Let us ask
them whether they had taken pains to verify a few cases at the least.
We boldly say that actually the Moolam bride is hippy and rich
whereas the Moolam boy is leading a miserable life. Moolam girl is
the land lady and Moolam boy is a servant, Moolam girl lends
money to Moolam boys. Moolam girl gives lift in her car, to a
moolam old man who walks on the tar road, in the hot sun, even
without chappals. Moolam boys sells his wife’s jewels to a Moolam
girl who purchases them for her use

Let us pose some questions.

Some boys lose their father immediately after marriage. Have
all of them married girls born in Moolam 7 Some boys complain a
lot of difficulties to their mother, soon after their marriage. Have
they married the brides born in Ashlesha Ist pada. A few say that
they lost their elder brother immediately after marriage, had they
married Jyeshta girls. Similarly collect facts and consider. You will
find that the fathers-in-law passed away even though the girls are
born in all the 27 stars. Similarly some lost mother-in-law, some
brother-in-law, and so on. Therefore to attribute any such
occurrences only to the nakshathra of the bride is not wise. Suppose
a girl is born in Moolam first pada she marries a boy. Is it certain
that her father-in-law will pass away. Should not his horoscope
indicate that his end will be immediately after his son's marriage
with a Moolam girl ? If his horoscope promises long span of life,
how can this bride shorten it, by marrying his son? If the father-in-
law does not die, will she administer poison ? Are there not many
Moolam girls having fathers-in-law for many decades after
marriage? Do girls born in other stars promise long life to father-in-
law.

Therefore, do not pay heed to all these proverbs, to reject
the horoscope of girls born in Moolam or Ashlesha or Jyeshta
=== PAGE 0032 ===
28

or Visaka is not wise. One has to judge the whole horoscope and
find out the results. To select or reject on any one point, taking only
Moon's position into consideration is not correct.

A few exception : If the star of the girl or the boy is either
Mrigaseerisha or Makam or Uthiram or Hastham or Swathi or
Anuradha or Uthrashada or Uthirattadhi, one need not see dasa
porutham at all. They can marry even when there is no dhina
porutham etc. , Yet the special rule to the 7th star is to be
considered.)

The Ten agreements are :

'DINAM GANAM CHA MAHENDRAM
STHREE DHEERGAM YONIREVA CHA

RASI-RASYADHIPOW VASYAM
RAJJUR VEDHA CHA DHAE DHASA

i.ec., Dinam, Ganam, Mahendram, Sthree Dheergam, Yoni,
Rasi, Rasi-adhi-pathi, Vasyam, Rajju and Vedhai.

Of the ten, the first Dina-Porutham was dealt with, on page
178. The next is Ganam.

Gana-Porutham:

Gana might have been otherwise called as “Gunas." The nature
of a person may be broadly classified into three groups. Rajasic,
Sathvic and thamasic. Our sages have expounded that it is the
inborn nature of the couple which is mainly responsible for good
understanding between themselves and for leading happy and
harmonious wedded lives.

If the husband is R ajasic, that is, if he is of a fiery nature, short
tempered, rash and violent and if he understands that the wife is
also equally militant, they will agree satisfactorily. Rajasic means
"Rakshasa"

If both happen to be gentle, true, law-abiding, god-fearing, and
modest, they also will have Gana-porutham and will lead pleasant
lives. "Sathvic" means "Deva". If both are dull, lethargic, feeling
happy when supported or grumbling when the other is negligent or
reluctant which is the nature of most of the people, then too,
understanding that the partner is in no way
=== PAGE 0033 ===
29

better or worse than himself, or herself, they pull on with
pleasure. This type is called "Manushya Ganam."

If husband and wife are both born in the same group-
Ganam, they will agree.

If the husband is bom in Deva Ganam and the wife's stars
belongs to Manushya Ganam, both horoscopes will agree.

The agreement is said to be passable, if the husband is born
in Manushya Ganam, and the bride in Deva Ganam.

If either of their stars is in the group of Raksasa Ganam and the
other in Manushya Ganam, they will not agree. There will be no
pleasure in their wedded life.

There are some exceptions.

(1) Suppose the bride is born in Rakshasa Ganam, Then
count the star of the bride from that of the boy. If it is above 14th,
the evil effects will be warded off. They can be matched.

(2) If the sign, in which Moon was at the time of birth of the couple,
happens to be the same or if the lords, of the different signs, in
which Moon was at the time of their birth, happen to be friends or if
they are in Sama-Sapthama, then even if there is no Ganam, it can
be matched.

The following nine stars belong to

2. Rakshasa Ganam.

Karthikai, Ashlesha, Makam, Chithrai, Visakam, Jyeshta,
Moolam, Dhanishta and Sathabishak.

Manushya Gana stars are also nine in number. They are
Bharani, Rohini, Arudhra, Poorvapalguni, Poorvashada, Poorva-
pathrapada, Uthrapalguni, Uthrashada and Uthrabathrapada. The
remaining 9 stars are grouped as Deva Ganam, and they are Aswini,
Mrigasirisham, Punarvasu, Pushyam, Hastham, Swathi, Anuradha,
Sravanam and Revathi.

The above agreement is observed mostly by Kshathriyas.

3. Mahendhra-Porutham:

This also might have been named as Maha Kendhram.
Because by Kendhra, we mean the house 1, 4, 7. 10. Similarly
=== PAGE 0034 ===
30

in this porutham, it is said that if the bridegroom's star is the same
as the bride's or the 4th, 7th, 10th, 13th, 16th, 19th, 22nd or ?5th
counted from that of the bride, it agrees.

A hasty student will ask, "How is it that the sages in one
Porutham, advocate the rejection of a star ; while in another
porutham they consider it as good. For example, in Dina porutham,
they have condemned the 7th star; i e,, if the boy's star is the
seventh when counted from that of the girl, they do not match. But
under Mahendra porutham, they have selected the seventh star. How
are we to reconcile this7"

It is a fact, that under Dina porutham, the seventh star is
discarded, whereas under Mahendram, it is approved.

All poruthams do not indicate the same result; i.e., happy
life with wife; harmony between them; prosperity, progeny,
etc. Each porutham shows a particular result

By Dina porutham, one can understand that the couple, having
this agreement, can maintain good health and live together for a long
period. But by Mahendra porutham, it is to be presumed that the
couple, having this agreement, will have many children. Suppose the
husband's star is the seventh from that of the wife. Then she may
bring forth children and either of them may die very early. Are there
not instances, where in the couple had all young kids and they pass
away ? So Mahendra Porutham has given children, and the lack of
Dina Porutham indicates short life to either both. If there is Dina
Porutham, and no Mahendhra Porutham, then they will live long and
the family, will not be big If Dina porutham is absent and there is
Mahendra Porutham, in the short period of married life, maximum
number of children will be born. If both agreements are absent,
neither will they have long span of married life, nor will they have
children.

N.B: Even though, there may be Mahendra Porutham (7th, 16th
and 25th stars) it should be read along with the special rules and
information given by the sage Kasyapa. If Kasyapa Maharishi has
not approved and group-(7th star), never match it Once for all, reject
outright ; e.g., he had said that if girls born in Sravanam, marry
persons born in Aswini, the seventh star
=== PAGE 0035 ===
31

they cannot have harmony and will get separated. So, a girl born in
Sravanam, by marrying a boy born in Aswini, saying that there is
Mahendra Porutham, will get separated, after having 3 child or two.
Do we not hear many divorce cases after they had a few children.

4. Sthree Dheerga Porutham:

This agreement between the couple denotes satisfactory
increase in their bank position after they get married.

It is declared that there is Sthree Dheerga Porutham if the boy's
star is 13th and above, i.e., between 13 and 27, when counted from
that of the bride. Some sages have said hat there is Sthree
Dheergam, if the male's star is between 8 and 27th, that is above the
seventh star.

5. Yoni Porutham:

This shows that the husband and the wife will have good
understanding and harmony Probably this may be mistaken as
though they will unite like animals or reptiles mentioned against
each star. It is not so. It is only to impress upon the mind of
the astrologer and the consultant" whether a group of stars
promise friendliness or enmity.

Stars Yoni
Aswini, Sathabishak Horse
Barani, Revathi Elephant
Karthikai, Pushyam Goat
Rohini, Mrigasirsha Snake
Arudhra, Moolam Dog
Punarvasu, Ashlesha Cat
Makam, Pooram Rat
Uthiram Camel
Hastham, Swathi Buffalo
Chithra, Visakam Tiger
Anuradha, Jyeshta Deer
Poorvashada, Sravanam Monkey
Uttradam, Uthrattadi Cow

Dhanishta Poorattadhi Human
=== PAGE 0036 ===
32

This, whether one is a male or female, yoni is allotted to
each star.

If both are born in the same yoni, it is an excellent agreement.
For example, girls born in Yisakam star will be considered as one
whose yonis "Tiger". If she marries a boy born in Chithrai star
whose yoni is also ‘Tiger’, both will agree well ; and this agreement
promises peace and prosperity which everybody wants. An Ashlesha
girl, marrying Punarvasu, both having the yoni of cat, will lead a
calm and peaceful life, as both have the same yoni. Because the yoni
is compared to cat, one should not mistake that like cats they will be
creating a terrifying noise when they want to have pleasure. Nor
will Arudhra and Moolam star people behave like dogs. This
agreement is judged to find whether they will have a prosperous
married life or not. Also, it indicates whether one likes the other or
not.

Have we not heard boys saying, "I don't like the girl, I don't
know why. On looking at her, somehow, I have a repulsion. She is
no doubt, fair, good-looking, well-behaved, etc. Yet I am not
attracted." In such cases, there will be no yoni Porutham. If the boy
and the girl are born in such yonis which are inimical, they will not
agree. Prosperity and peace are not promised by this method of
judgment. Further they cannot have the desired conjugal bliss, There
will be dissatisfaction.

(1) Monkey and goat, i.e., Pooradam or Sravana girl or boy
marrying Pushyam or Karthikai boy. A girl born in Pooradam has
Dina Porutham with Karthikai and the Ist, 2nd and 4th padas of
Pushyam. A girl bom in Sravanam has good Dina Porutham with
Karthikai. But Pushyam star is in Cancer. There is “Sama
Sapthamam' As is said that Saturn and the Luminaries, Sun and
Moon do not agree, the “Sama Sapthamam" is not approved.
Hence Sravanam and Pushyam cannot be matched. Thus Dina
Porutham indicates health and longevity while yoni shows satis-
faction and prosperity. Hence people having inimical yonis will
be dissatisfied.

(2) Goat and elephant have no concord-
(3) Horse and buffalo are inimical.
(4) Cow and tiger disagree.
=== PAGE 0037 ===
33

(5) Rats and cats need no explanation.
(6) Snakes and rats are also evil.
(7) Deer and dog cannot be dear friends.

Therefore one has to mention that this porutham is absent,
even though other agreements may be encouraging. As it is said
that marriages can be celebrated if there are more than five agree
meats out of the ten, even if this is absent, one can proceed. It
is advisable to enlighten the couple, so that they can try to adjust
themselves.

6. Rasi Porutham :

What is meant by Rasi 7 Generally by ‘Rasi’ one means a
Sign, i,e., Aries or Mesha, Taurus or Rishaba. Gemini or Mithuna,
and so on. But the correct meaning of Rasi is the sign occupied by
Moon at the time of birth. One may have his Lagna-ascendant in
Leo Simha. But his star may be Barani, thereby Moon is in Mesha-
Aries. Hence his Lagna is Leo and Rasi is Aries. Suppose one's
ascendant-Lagna is Libra-Thulam and Moon is in Swathi star which
is also in Libra-Thulam. Then his Lagna and Rasi are one and the
same Libra or Thulam. Rasi means the sign occupied by Moon.

(a) If the Moon sign-Rasi of the husband is the second counted
from the sign of the bride, long span of married life is not assured.

(b) If the rasi is third from that of the girl, the married life will
not be pleasant. Due to ill-health, lack of understanding, etc., they
will feel sorry for having been matched together.

(c) If the rasi of the boy is the 4th from that of the girl,
even the possessions prior to marriage may be squandered, and
they will lead miserable lives.

(d If the rasi is the 5th from that of the girl, the husband is
not assured of long life, She may have the most undesirable event in
her young age. Exception : if the girl is born with Moon in Aries or
Cancer and that of the boy is the fifth therefrom, the above evil
result will be warded off - They can be matched.

(the opinion of the Westeners as regards the 5th. sign is
just opposite. They consider it to be very auspicious. How
Westerners
=== PAGE 0038 ===
34

match and what are the various aspects they consider, will be
dealt with, after this Dasa Porutham, Sakunam and Nimitham.]

(e) If the rasi of the boy is the sixth, there will be loss of
children. Astrologers call this as fShashtaashtama.~ They threa-ten
the poor parents, (by ‘poor,’ it is meant, poor knowledge in
astrology) saying that the Moon sign of the bride and that of the
bridegroom are in shashta-ashtama. They add that their opinions
will ever differ. They will always be quarreling. Their married life
will be unpleasant, and so on. It is not correct. The sages have said
that such a Shashta-ashtama position indicates short life to one or
the birth of a few children: it is certain if they have Saturn, Rahu or
Kethu in the ascendant or the 5th house.

Further there is exception for Shashta-ashtama. The twelve
signs are divided into two groups. Aries-Mesha ; Gemini- Mithuna ;
Leo-Simha ; Libra-Thulam; Sagittarius-Dhanus and Aquarius-
Kumbha ; these are called Oja Rasis or odd signs or masculine or
positive ones. The other six signs are the second, fourth, sixth,
eighth, tenth, and twelfth; these are termed Yugma rasis or even
signs or Feminine or Negative ones.

It is declared that girls born in Oja Rasi or in the signs, Aries,
Gemini, etc. have no Shashta-Ashtama Dhosha. Further if the lords
of the sign in which Moon was in bride's horoscope is either Taurus-
Rishaba or Scorpio-Vrischika, then tbe 6th house to them are Libra
and Aries. As the lords of Taurus and Libra as well as Scorpio and
Aries happen to be the same, there can be no Shashta-Ashtama
Dhosa.

Further, it is mentioned that if tbe boy's Moon sign falls in
Taurus-Rishaba; Cancer-Kataka, Virgo-Kanni, Scorpio- Vrischika,
Capricorn-Makara and Pisces-Meena, and if it is second to that of
the bride, the evil results will be warded off. They can be matched
and they will have long life.

7. Rasyadhipathi Porutham:

This agreement indicates whether one will have fortunate
children.

The following table is given according to Kalaprakasika,
Kala Vidhana, Brihat Jataka and tbe views of Sathyachariar. If
=== PAGE 0039 ===
35

the lords of the signs in which Moon was in the horoscope of toe
bride and the bridegroom happen to be the same, it is very good.
If they are friends, it is good. If they are neutral, the agreement
will be moderate. If they are enemies, they are not desirable.

Planets Friendly Neutral Inimical
Sun Moon Mercury Saturn
Mars Venus
Jupiter
Moon Sun Mars NONE
Mercury Jupiter
Venus
Saturn
Mars Sun Venus Mercury
Moon Saturn
Jupiter
Mercury Saturn Sun Moon
Mars
Jupiter
Venus
Jupiter Sun Saturn Mercury
Moon Venus
Mars
Venus Saturn Mars Sun
Mercury Jupiter Moon
Saturn Mercury Jupiter Sun
Venus Moon

Mars

=== PAGE 0040 ===
36

8. vasyam:

if this agreement is found between the charts of the bride
and the bridegroom, they will have a very happy and harmonious
wedded life and there will be good understanding between
themselves. They will have peace and pleasure

Bride's Rasi Bridegroom’s Rasi

Aries Leo and Scorpio
Taurus Cancer and Libra
Gemini Virgo

Cancer Scorpio and Sagittarius
Leo Libra

virgo Gemini and Pisces

Bride's Rasi Bridegroom’s Rasi

Libra Capricorn

Scorpio Cancer and Virgo
Sagittarius Pisces

Capricorn Aries and Aquarius
Aquarius Aries

Pisces Capricorn

9. Rajju Porutham;

Generally astrologers give much importance to RAJJU,
because if there is no agreement according to this method of
judgment, they say that the partner will be short-lived and she
may have to survive the husband which no lady will like.

One has to open three column as under: In the first column,
write down the nice stars counting from Aswini. In the
second column write down the nine stars counting from
Makham. In the third column, write down the nine stars
counting from Moolam.

hi each column, the first four nakshathras are called Aroha
rajju. The fifth star in each column is termed Siro Rajju. The
remaining stars, six to nine, are classified as Avaroha Rajju.

Thus, Aswini, Barani, Karthikai and Rohini are Aroha
Rajju Mrigasirisham is called Siro Rajju. Arudra, Punarvasu,
Pushyam and Aslesha are included in the Avaroha Rajju.
=== PAGE 0041 ===
37

Similarly in the other columns, one is to sort out and declare to
which Rajju each star belongs : -

Aroha Rajju Rajju
Aswini Makam Moolam Pada (foot)
Barani Poorvapalguni Poorvashada Thodai (thigh)
Karthikai Uthrapalguni Uthrashada  Nabhi (navel
Rohin Hastham Sravanam Kazhuthu (neck)
Siro Rajju

Mrigasirisham Chithrai Dhanishta Siro head

Avaroha Rajju
Arudra Swathi Sathabhisha neck
Punarvasu. Visakha Poorva-Bhadra navel

Pushyam Anuradha Uthra-Bhadra thigh

Aslesha Jyeshta Revati foot

Therefore, the Ist, 10th and 19th stars belong to Aroha and the
9th, 18th and 27th stars to Avaroha of Afoot«.

Stars 2, 11, and 20 belong to Aroha and 8, 17 and 26 to
Avaroha of Thigh.

Stars 3, 12 and 21 belong to Aroha and 7, 16 and 25 belong
to Avaroha of Navel.

Stars 4, 13, and 22 belong to Aroha and 6, I5and 24 belong
to Avaroha of Kazhuthu or neck.

Stars 5, 14 and 23 belong to Siro Rajju.

1. if both the bride's star and the bridegroom's star belong to the
same group, it is said that they do riot agree. For example if the girl is
born in Rohini, Kazhuthu (neck) Rajju and the boy is, horn in Hastham
or Sravanam which also belongs to the same Aroha Kazhuthu Rajju,
then one should not predict that they concord. According to this rule,
they should not be matched. But if the stars of the bride and bridegroom
belong to different groups, i.e., if the Rajjus are different, e.g., one
Kazhuthu and the other nabhi etc.. they agree satisfactorily according to
this rule. This is considered as very good.
=== PAGE 0042 ===
38

2. if the stars of both the bride and the bridegroom belong
to Arohana in different groups, it is excellent.

3. Even though they may belong to different groups and one
is Arohana and the other is Avarohana, the agreement is fair.

4. If the stars of the couple belong to different groups but
both are m Avarohana, it is not satisfactory.

5. Even if they belong to the same Rajju, if one's star is in
Arohana and the other in Avarohana. they may be matched. It
is classified as fair.

If the couple are destined to marry and the stars belong to the
same pada - foot Rajju, what would be the evil result ? Does it
threatens short life to the husband? No. But the husband will be ever
touring and thereby there will be temporary separation. Is this Rajju
evil, if one considers that the temporary separation is welcome,
especially between the couple who do not have good understanding
quarrel occasionally ? Will not this temporary Separation set right
their difficulties? Let us consider the families where the husband has
no other go, except to remain at home for ever. Then, naturally,
there will be more occasions to quarrel whereby harmony is denied.
Therefore, this Rajju does not threaten danger to partner and if at all,
it shows frequent journeys to them.

But if they belong to Thigh (Thodai Rajju) it shows that there
will be financial loss. Suppose a person's chart shows that he will
become rich. Then how far this agreement will affect his fortune
needs consideration. This agreement will never reduce his income,
nor increase his expenses. Actually, a native was born in Pushyam
star, and she married one in Poorvapalguni star. He entered service
as a stenographer in a firm and he retired as one of the Directors of
the Company. His prosperity is not prevented by this Rajju. He was
all through life economical and never incurred a loss, nor had he any
occasion to meet any uncommon or unnecessary expenses. The wife
was more thrifty and she assisted her husband to save much.
Therefore, as long as this Rajju does not indicate danger to life, one
need not discard a horoscope on this score.
=== PAGE 0043 ===
39

The next group is Nabhi (navel) Rajju. The results mentioned
by our sages are that there may be danger to children and a few may
pass away. When we examine the horoscopes of the parents who
had lost the first, the second issues, etc., and then name the third
issue, Kuppu, Pitchai etc., we do not find that they have this Nabhi
Rajju, Therefore loss of children, is not indicated only by this Rajju,
but it must be found in their birth charts. Hence this Rajju is neither
evil nor strong.

The only Rajju where one has to necessarily scrutinise the
charts of the couple for longevity, etc., is Siro Rajju. It is threatened
that the husband may not live long and the wife may have to outlive
her husband. The stars belong to Mrjgasirisha trines. In our
research, we have not seen horoscopes of the couple belonging to
the same Siro Rajju. So, we cannot state anything definitely except
that we have to accept this.

A few astrologers reject the horoscopes of the bride and
bridegroom both born in Mrigasirisham ot Chitra stars, saying
that there is Siro Rajju and that Rajju porutham is very
important. True. But we have to consider that our sages were
aware of all the rules, when they framed them. So a question arises
whether the same sage would have considered this point also, while
discussing Eka nakshathra—same star-agreement; it is declared that
the partners, both born in Mrjgasirisha star or in Chitra star, can
marry and the Dina porutham is satisfactory. Dina porutham also
indicates health and longevity, Our opinion is that both are correct.
Dinaporutham shows that they both will live long. But Rajju shows
that after having led a married life for a long number of years, the
husband will pass away first and then only the wife. Have we not
heard a few couples living up to 80 years of age and longer and then
the wife surviving the husband ?

Special rule; if the couple had Moon at the time of their
birth in the signs ruled by planets which are friendly, or if the Moon
signs of the couple were to be in Sama sapthama, i.e., one
opposite to the other (i.e., Mesha to Thulam, Rishaba to Vrischika,
and so on) or if they are born with Moon in the same
sign, then sucha position wards off the evil results indicated by
Rajju-porutham. When we apply this special rule, we will
=== PAGE 0044 ===
40

find that the trine stars are mostly in the house ruled by bosom
friends and the trine stars are said to be in the same Rajju. Here also
confusion will arise in the minds of the students.

For example, you take a girl born in Aswini and a boy in
Makham. It is said that, if the boy or girl is born in Makham, then
Dasa porutham need not be considered But if you consider Rajju
porutham—where it is said that Rajju porutham is very important-
you find that they belong to the same Rajju. When you apply the
other special rule, you will find that one belongs to Aries-Mesha-
and tbe other belongs to Leo-Simha-which are ruled by Mars and
Sun who are friends. So according to this rule, there can be no evil
due to Rajju Similarly when we apply to each star, we will find that
the trine stars are mostly in the friends quarters except the following.

Karthikai’s first pada in Aries will not agree with Uthra-
palguni, 2nd, 3rd and 4th padas, and similarly, Uthrashada
2nd, 3rd and 4th padas, as they are in enemies camp.

Karthikai 2nd, 3rd and 4th padas do not agree with Uthra-
palguni and Utharashada first pada, as the signs are
ruled by the enemy, Sun or Jupiter.

Punarvasu Ist, 2nd and 3rd padas are in Mercury's sign-
Gemini; Visakam 4th pada and Poorvapathrapada 4th
pada are in Mars sign Scorpio and Jupiter's sign Pisces
respectively, which alone do not come under this special
rule, and so we have to say that they do not agree.

Excepting the few mentioned above, all other stars are in
friends quarters. So if one applies the special rule, then this Rajju
does not play much part at all.

Again let us take the horoscopes of the unfortunate widows and
get from them their husbands charts also. In most of the cases there
is no Rajju at all and according to Rajju porutham, the horoscopes
do agree most satisfactorily. Then one is to consider also the
horoscopes of those where there is Rajju, but yet the bride pre-
deceases and the husband remains a widower. The analytical study
and research show that the
=== PAGE 0045 ===
Al

longevity, the health, the number of years of married life, and who
would survive whom, are to be carefully studied from their
individual horoscopes and this Rajju porutham has no final say in
the matter. Rajju cannot change the results indicated by the
Individual horoscopes.

Also if one studies the stars classified in one group, it will be
seen that the lords the stars of are bosom friends. Saturn rules the
stars Pushyam, Anurada and Uthrattadhi. The three stars which
belong to the same Rajju are Barani, Poorvapalguni and
Poorvashada stars, which are governed by Venus. Both are friends.
Similarly, Karthikai trine stars are ruled by Sun and the same Rajju
belong to the friend Jupiter, i.c., Punarvasu trine. Hence, in our
opinion this Dasaporutham is not a strong indicator of any result in
the married life.

There are many general rules, and also innumerable special
rules. When all are applied, then all the horoscopes can be matched,
or quoting any one rule, they can be rejected. Thus, the rules suffer
in the hands of the students of astrology. Our strong advice is to
study the individual horoscopes and pass an opinion. Do not commit
any sin, by saying that a particular pair of horoscopes agree, and the
other pair do not, without understanding the strength of their
horoscopes separately.

10. Vedhai:

(a) If either of the couple is bom in Aswini star, do not
match with one born in Jyeshta or Kettai,

(b) Bharani star native does not agree with Pushyam star
born

(c) Karthikai and Visakam do not match.

(d) Rohini star does not concord with Swathi.

(e) Amdhra and Sravana stars disagree.

(f) Punatvasu and Uthrashada disagree.

(g) Pushyam and Poorvashada show vedhai

(h) Aslesha and Moolam do not concord.

(i) Makam and Revathi are unsatisfactory.

() Mrigasirisha and Chithrai do not concord.

For Poorvapalguni or Pooram stars there is no Vedhai.
Third agreement indicates that if the above group of couple get
=== PAGE 0046 ===
42

married they cannot pull on peacefully ; there will be repulsion and
hence, they will always disagree, and their married life will not be
harmonious. It cannot give pleasure to them.

Thus, these are the ten agreements considered by the
parents of the couple before the marriage is fixed.

There are a few more agreements which are also observed.
Especially in North India, Nadi Porutham is taken into serious
consideration. They divide the stars into three groups, namely :

(a) The stars Karthikai, Rohini, Aslesha, Makham
Swathi, Visakam, Uthrashada, Sravana and Revathi these nine
belong to Vama Parswa Nadi.

(b) The stars Aswini, Arudhra, Punarvasu, Uthrapalguni,
Hastham, Jyeshta, Moolam, Sathabisba and Poorva- pathrapada
belong to Dakskina Parswa Nadi.

(c) The remaining nine stars, Bharani, Mrigasirisha, Pushyam,
Poorvapalguni, Chithrai, Anuradha, Poorva- shada, Dhanishta
and Uthrapathrapada, belong to the middle, Madhyama Parswa
Nadi.

It is said that if the bride and the bridegroom belong to
different Nadis, they agree very favourably.

If they both belong to Madhyama Nadi, it is evil to the
husband.

If they belong to the same Parswa Nadi it is undesirable to
the bride.

If one refers to "Kalaprakasika", a standard text-book one
will find many more agreement observed by our ancestors before
fixing up a marriage. Thus :

1. The stars are classified into three groups :
(a) Male or masculine Stars;
(b) Female or feminine stars ;
(c) Effeminate stars.

Female stars are Ashlesha, Makam, Poorani or Poorvapalguni
Uthram or Uthrapalguni, Arudhra, Barani, Chithrai, Swathi,
Visakam, Poorvashada, Utharashada, Jyestha, Dhanishta and
Sravanam.
=== PAGE 0047 ===
43

Effeminate stars Mrigasirisha, Sathabisha and Moolam.

All other stars are masculine ones, i.e., Aswini, Karthikai,
Rohini, Punarvasu, Pushyam, Hastha, Anurada, Poorvapathrapada,
Uthrapathrapada and Revathi.

If the bridegroom is born in the masculine star and bride in the
feminine stars, they agree satisfactorily. But if the bride is born in
masculine stars and the bridegroom in any one of the feminine stars,
they will not match. If one is born any one of the effeminate stars
and the other in any one of the feminine stars, (he agreement may be
classified as fair. So also, if the effeminate star and the male star
born are combined, the result will be moderate.

If both tbe couple are born in masculine stars they can be
matched : so also, if both are born in feminine stars, they also
concord.

Now here it is mentioned what the result would be, if a girl
born in a masculine star marries a boy in a feminine star. Nor has it
been said what for this agreement is considered.

Gothram

Originally, our ancients selected 2S stars and they had the
star Abhijit included along with the 27 stars now in vogue.
Abhijit is given a place next to Sravanam.

They took the seven stars and called them by the names of
seven Rishis (Saptha rishis) Marichi, Vashista, Angirisha, Athri,
Pulasthiya, Pulasha and Krithu. They distributed the 28 stars
among the seven rishis, each 4 stars in the same order, 1.e., Aswini,
Bharani, Karthikai and Rohini belong to Marichi; Mrigasirisha,
Arudhra, Punarvasu and Pushyam belong to Vashista ; Aslesbar
Makham, Poorvapalguni and Uthrapalguni belong to Angirasa ; and
so on.

In “Kalaprakasika" it is said :
hkagothrae Bhavain Nasoe
Binna Gothrae Subhavaha

Hence, couple born in any of the four stars belonging to the same
group, i.e., to the same rishi, should not get married, as it threatens
danger to either and it brings misfortune to both.
=== PAGE 0048 ===
Caste according to Astrology

Katakam or Cancer, Meenam or Pisces, and Vrishcikam or
Scorpio, or all the three watery signs, belong to the Brahmin Caste.

Leo-Simha, Sagittarius-Dhanus and Libra-Thulam belong
to Kshathriya caste.

Mesha-Aries, Mithuna-Gemini and Kumbha-Aquarius
rule the Vaishyas.

Rishaba-Taurus, Makara-Capricorn, Kanni-Virgo, belong
to Sudras.

The rank is given in the order, Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaisya
and Sudras.

It is said that a bridegroom should not marry a girl born in the
rasi belonging to the higher caste. It is threatened that the person,
marrying a girl born in the higher carte, will die within a short time
after marriage.

Thus, one can see the various methods by which one makes
a selection. He will be puzzled to see that if one method agrees, the
other does not agree. If the special rules are applied, most of the
horoscopes agree, etc., indeed, it is neither a correct method to
declare how long the couple will live, whether there will be
harmony or not, and so on, nor is this method clear without any
contradiction between one rule and the other. Under one method,
they will agree and under another rule they will not.

Just as marks are given in the mathematics paper, a few
astrologers give marks. There also, they do not take into
consideration which sum is hard, and how much the total mark for
that sum should be, and so on. They give equal marks to all.
Finally, they declare that the two horoscopes agree, as more
than 5 agreements are found in the charts.

We do not attach much importance to these. In the end of the
article, one can read the chapter nimitham and Sakunam which are
more dependable : (a) to know whether the marriage
=== PAGE 0049 ===
45

between any two persons will be fixed and celebrated or not : and
(b) whether they will have a happy and harmonious life or not.

Without examining the horoscopes, certain facts can be
predicted by following the methods given below :

1. Will the marriage take place between A and B ? Suppose
this is the question put by the consultant, you can say that the
marriage will surely take place between them and there will be no
disappointment if to the Lagna that rises according to the number
given by the consultant, (any number between | and 249) Moon is
posited at the time of the query in any of the houses 3, 5, 7, 10, or
11 and it receives the beneficial aspect from the benefic Jupiter.
Otherwise, it will fall through. If both Guru and Sani aspect, after
some delay, the marriage will be fixed. If Guru is retrograde, this
will fall through.

2. Will I be able to get a girl for marriage? This question
will be put generally by one who had been much depressed and
dejected and who would have grown old without getting married
for a long period.

If Libra-Thulam, Taurus-Rishaba or Cancer-Kataka happen to
be the Ascendant according to the number given by the consultant
(any one number within 108), if Moon and Venus have any
connection to the Ascendant, then the querist can be informed that
he will get a girl, and the marriage will take place.

But if the question is put during waning Moon Krishna- paksha
Theipirai-! if Moon occupies either 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12th house from
the Prasna Lagna, he can see the girls walking here and there in the
market, in the bus, at the cinema theatre, etc., with their husbands,
but he will never have one girl for his marriage and he cannot enjoy
like them. If Moon were to be in 8 and if evil planets aspect, he will
ever be worrying himself but will never get married.

If the query is put by a girl confidentially to find out whether
she will be able to marry a particular person whom she has in mind
you have to note whether the Moon is in 3, 5, 7, 10, 11 and it
receives aspect from Jupiter-Guru ; if this condition is
=== PAGE 0050 ===
46

satisfied, he will marry, but if Moon were to be in 5, receiving
Jupiter's aspect, the marriage will take place, but there is danger
to either within 8 years after the marriage.

ff, at the time of the query, the Lagna is occupied by Mars
and in the seventh house, there is a beneficial planet, either her
character is not satisfactory, or she may lose her children during her
lifetime, and she will lose her husband in 8 years.

If Mars is in the seventh house counted from the Prasna Lagna
which is occupied by Moon, it is certain that she will loose her
husband within 8 years after marriage.

If there is a debilitated planet in the fifth house counted
from the Prasna Lagna, and if it receives aspect from any
malefic, the girl may have bad character and her children may
not have long life.

Marriages fixed by sakunam (Omen)

The parents get vexed when they go on collecting horoscopes
and getting them examined by a few astrologers. They complain
that the astrologers have agreed to disagree with each other just like
clocks in the same compound. They are already worried in finding
out a suitable boy for the girl. Secondly, there are so many other
considerations in the selection of the boy. Ja there anxiety they are
confused. When they approach the astrologer in a confused state,
they are still more confused, so that, in course of time, they decide,
not to consult any astrologer, and they pin their faith in God, look at
the Sakunam or Nimitham, and fix up the marriage which is really
good.

Such people and even those who have faith not only in
astrology, but also in the astrologer whom they consult, can follow
Sakunam. It is the real Divine guidance. It will never fail. Sakunam
is more important than the Dasa porutham. This is our honest and
sincere opinion.

He who has to take a decision after noting the Sakunam,
should pray to God or Goddess in whom he or she has faith.
Then what one hears or sees at that time will offer the correct
prediction. One should not artificially create a Sakunam, e.g., at the
time you start, you should not instruct your child to turn
=== PAGE 0051 ===
47

the key of the alarm time piece and allow it to ring; nor ask any
Sumangali, a young girl, leading a good life with her husband
to come in front of you. But you allow the Sakunam to nature.

If the cat were to come before you, once for all forget the
matter and give up the attempt. If a cow comes, proceed. If anybody
brings the idol of God, proceed. Even if you are sure that you will
come by fortune. If you make an attempt in any direction and if at
that time a widow were to come, be sure that you will be
disappointed and misfortune will surely be the result.

If you hear the sound of a bell, etc., you may proceed. If the
light is put off by strong wind or if the electric light fails due to 'fuse
of the wire' or failure of the current, it foreshadows evil results, and
that the alliance in consideration will fall through. Similarly, there
are hundreds of omens - Sakunams.

Varahamihira says that an omen reveals the fruition of his
deeds, according to the good deeds and bad ones done in the
previous birth. Omens are not superstitious beliefs. Actually they are
very correct indications. Sa-gunam means good quality. That is why
this method of finding out the truth is called Sakunam.

There are many other omens which are rural, wild, aquatic,
terrestrial, heavenly, diurnal, nocturnal and diurnal-nocturnal.
Nimitham:

Nimitham needs intelligence to interpret. But if it is properly
interpreted, this is superior to Sakunam and will be more appropriate
and explanatory.

It will not be out of place if a few instances are given.
Once a Guru was teaching the students as how to interpret
incidents and understand tbe future. At that time, the Guru's
wife went out of the house to fetch water from a common well
provided with a pulley alone. She had to take the rope and the
bucket. She did carry them along with her. In the mean
while, a gentleman approached the teacher and requested him to
offer a prediction.

The Guru asked him "What is your difficulty? What is
it that you want?"
=== PAGE 0052 ===
48

The person said : My wife and I did not pull on amicably.
She went to her native place a year ago, and in spite of my
repeated reminders and registered letters, she never cared to
reply. I am really worried. I would like to know whether she
will divorce me, desert me and leave in the lurch, or at least,
after some time, she will come to her senses and join me.

As he was saying this, the Guru's wife returned empty handed
and waited for the visitor to finish his narration. The moment he
completed his story, she said to her husband that the rope, she used
gave way, while dragging the water and hence, the pot has fallen
into the well.

Now, the Guru asked the students to interpret his wife's
report to the query of the visitor.

All the students except one told the Guru: Sir we call marriage
as a bondage, we tie the saffron thread around tbe neck of the bride
to show, that she is married. We call it as Thali or Mangalya saradu.
As your wife complains that the rope has given way, we have to take
that the mangalya saradu has become weak; it will be cut off shortly,
and hence she will not join him. It will end in a divorce.

Only one student remained silent and was hearing the
explanation of all the others. Even the visitor was upset, when he
heard the lady saying "the rope has given way". He called her
within himself ;"as Saturn : wherefrom this Saturn is come now, and
so on." The Guru asked the student "What is your opinion ? What
have you got to say ? Do you agree with them or do you differ from
them ?"

This intelligent student said "Sir, it is a fact that Mangalyam is
a thread and tying it around the neck of the bride is the custom to
say that the bride is married to him. Traditionally, it is done by us
all. But now, we have to consider as follows. The rope used for
pulling the water from the well is the evil force which tries to
separate a part of the water from the large quantity of water in the
well. This potful of water belongs to the well. The rope tries to
separate this water from its kin. But the evil period is over. The rope
has given way. There is no more evil. Hence, shortly, she will come
and join
=== PAGE 0053 ===
49

him, just like the water in the pot which belonged to the well
again joined in that well and is safe."

The wise teacher agreed with the student, who gave the
verdict that the wife would come and join, encouraged the
visitor and declared that divorce was out of question, and that
his wife would surely come and join hjm. Also he advised him
to wait for some time, till the evil period was over, so that
automatically she would come and join him.

Actually after the lapse of some time, the wife joined her
husband.

Thus, the incident may be one and the same, but the
interpretation may be both ways. The wise interpretation alone
will come true.

A few more instances are given to impress upon the minds of
the readers how God helps the astrologer and gives him confidence
and courage to predict correctly from the Nimitham which is
the Tip from Nature.

the Author had been teaching the students of Astrology at
Saidapet under the auspices of the Modern Astrological Research
Institute for which he was, and continues to be, the Founder-
President. At that time, a young man produced a slip of paper to the
Professor in which he had written that his wife was in the family
way, and according to calculations, she was running the 11th month.
There was no labour pain and the date of delivery could not be
guessed by him. He was much worried. The professor asked him :
"Give me a number within 249". He mentioned the number 27. After
calculations, he had to predict twin-birth. He wanted to gather
courage to declare this prediction, especially in the presence of many
students. Wherefrom can he have the confidence, he looked outside.
At that time, an old lady ywas carryingg on her waist a bag, and a
cow ran by her side. She got terrified. She let loose the bag. While
falling, the bag which appeared to be one, fell as two separate ones.
Immediately the teacher predicted that his wife will give birth
to twins on Wednesday. The prediction was given on Sunday.
It is a fact that he had twin birth on the next Wednesday. The lady,
carrying one bag, represents his wife in the family way.
=== PAGE 0054 ===
50

When the bag fell, it was found that she had been carrying both
the bundles in one waist What more guidance can _ the
astrologer have?

One day, a gentleman asked the astrologer to tell him whether
bis son who was in London for the past two years, would return
home soon after his examination, or whether he would stay there
itself. Even though, according to Prasna, the astrologer decided to
say that he would go to a place still further away from London, and
that he would not return then, yet he waited for guidance. A bird
which was sitting on the ground about 100 yards away from the
professor, flew further away from the professor and did not fly
towards him. So, he said boldly that his son would not remain in
London, or that he would return home, but that he would proceed
further. In a fortnight, he heard that His son had left for America

A college girl asked the astrologer to describe the physical
features of the person whom she might marry. At that time the
professor looked outside and an elephant was passing by. Guess
what the Astrologer would have told. He said that at the time of
query, Moon and Jupiter were together in a watery sign and that he
hesitated to say that the husband would be plumpy. The appearance
of the elephant gave him the confirmation that the prospective
husband would be stout, with every small and sharp eyes. Also it
was mentioned that he would be very intelligent and dutiful, which
proved correct; but this prediction is offered more as a consolation
and compensation for the pot-bellied husband.

One of the students, who bad been observing such predictions,
wanted to test the professor. He requested the professor on another
day to describe the physical features of the girl whom his father had
selected for him. At that time a school-going girl came with a letter
and delivered it to the professor. The girl was black, not so much as
the crow. She was squint-eyed like a crow. She was lean and tall
like a scarecrow. According to Prasna, he had to offer similar
prediction. This girl's visit at that time was helpful to describe the
bride selected for the student. It was really a surprise for him to see
that the bride resembled mostly this girl.
=== PAGE 0055 ===
51

When a boy asked the astrologer whether he would pass the
examination, the astrologer took a newspaper and in it was printed
boldly : "Grand success to . ...in the election at... In the next
column it was published 'Relief to tax'. Why should the astrologer
look to Prasna ? He has to offer similar Prediction and give relief to
the boy's worry. That is why, in olden days, people used to tum over
the page of a holy book, read the contents and interpret it according
to their query.

Thus, instances can be multiplied. But let us be content
with these. Therefore, we have to understand that SAKUNAM
AND NIMITHAM ARE TRUE INDICATIONS. One should
consider the individual horoscopes, study for longevity,
harmony, happiness, prosperity, etc., and should not confuse
oneself with Dasa porutham and Mars (Angaraka or Sevvai or
Kuja) Dosham.

Some people say and believe that dreams also offer
indications.

What shall I dream to lead a good married life ?

If you remain unmarried and if you desire to have a very soft
husband dream in the night that you had a tailor for your fiance.
Also dream that you are pleased with him. Then this dream indicates
that you will marry a gentle, modest and soft person who will allow
you to be both mistress and also master from the time of marriage.
There is a popular rhyme which runs as follows :

The maid who dreams a tailor she would wed
Will marry one who'll be a log in bed ;

And she'll be master, too, of all his riches,

And in the vulgar parlance. 'Wear the breeches’.

MARS AND MARRIAGE
In my experience, I have noticed that people in the North of

India do not pay as much attention to the evil results of Mars as the
astrologers and parents of brides and bridegroom in certain
=== PAGE 0056 ===
32

districts in the south do. Whenever parents desire to make a
selection of a bride or a bridegroom, they first consider whether
there is Mars Dosha in the respective horoscopes or not.
They are, indeed, very much worried if they find Mars Dosha in
either of the horoscopes.

One may ask, "Why should they attach so much importance to
the position of Mars alone? We had never heard anybody taking of
Moon's Dosha or Sun's Dosha or any other planet's Dosha. Then
does it mean that Mars alone will do so much harm to the couple
which other planets cannot do " ?

The reply is that there are some people who unnecessarily
exaggerate the evil results of Mars. Most of the following points
are not taken for consideration :

1. What is the nature of Mars ?

2. Of which houses Mars is the lord? Does it become a
benefic or a malefic by owning such houses ?

3. Which house is occupied by Mars? Is it a favourable
one or an unfavourable one ?

4. Are the evil results of Mars uniformly the same, when
it occupies either Aries (Mesha) or Taurus (Rishaba) or Gemini
or any other sign in the Zodiac ?

5. Is there no change in the results of Mars if it were to
be in a movable or a fixed or a common sign ?

6. Is there no difference in the effect of Mars if it occupies
the various houses (Bhavas) ?

7. Does Mars Dosha mean only tbe loss of partner and
widowhood? Can it not cause any other trouble during
married life ?

8. What are the modifications in the results of Mars, if it
occupies its exaltation, own, friendly, inimical and debilitation
signs?

9. How far can the planets conjoined with, or aspecting
Mars, mitigate the affliction of Mars when it occupies
unfavourable houses ?
=== PAGE 0057 ===
53

10. Even when Mars occupies a favourable house, cannot
the adverse aspects of the planets bring about disagreeable
results ?

11. Will Mars be evil, even when it owns Rajayoga houses
(9 and 10)

12. Will there be no unfavourable result, if Mars occupies
a favourable house, even though it owns evil houses ?

13. Are we to count houses occupied by Mars, from Lagna
alone or from the sign occupied by Moon and Venus also ?

14 If there is dosha, what is the exact nature of the
difficulty?

15. Will afflicted Mars offer unfavourable results through-
out life ? Or will it be experienced only during a certain period ?
When can one expect such bad results?

16. If evil effects of Mars is indicated in both the horoscopes
what is the final result if they get married ?

17. if the Mars Dosha is found in one chart and the other
is free from it how will the married life be ?

18. If there is no such dosha in both the horoscopes, is a
happy and harmonious wedded life guaranteed for a long
number of years ?

19. As the houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate ones marriage as
well as the state of married life, if these houses are occupied by
benefics and if Mars occupies an evil sign, even then will there be
any bad effect ?

20. If the houses 2, 7 and 11 are owned by malefics and
occupied by malefics and there is no Mars Dosha, how can the
partners lead a peaceful and prosperous life ?

Let me explain to you, in detail, quoting authorities and
giving examples, that one need not unnecessarily entertain any fear
about Mars and its untoward effects Mars (Kuja) is also called
Mangal, Sevvai, Angaraka etc.

Mars owns the two signs: Aries (Mesha) and Scorpio
(Vrischika). It has to be a benefic to those born in these two
=== PAGE 0058 ===
54

signs as it is the lord of the ascendant. But Mars is not genuinely
good to such natives because when it happens to be the Lord of
Lagna, the other house it owns will be 8 to Aries (Mesha) and 6 to
Scorpio (Vrischika) . Hence, the difficulties, indicated by Mars, as
lord of 8 or 6, the evil houses, will be self-invited.

But to people whose birth was in Cancer (Kataka), Leo
(Simha) Sagittarius Dhanus and Pisces (Meena), Mars is a
Rajayogadhipathi and a benefic. It promises peace, progress
and prosperity. But to persons born in Mercury's signs (viz)
Gemini and Virgo, Mars is evil and especially to Virgo borns. It is
not auspicious to those born in the signs owned by Venus, i.e.,
Taurus (Vrishabha) and Libra (Thula) ; it is comparatively more
inauspicious to Taurus than to Libra. For people born in the signs
owned by Saturn, i.e., Capricorn (Makara) and Aquarius (Kumbha)
it will prove mostly beneficial for worldly pleasures and material
welfare.

Nature of Mars: When he owns beneficial houses and occupies
favourable signs, he gives courage, boldness and a go-ahead
spirit. Mars offers robust health. Success in attempts and
victory over enemies are promised by Mars. To receive help
from brothers, to have a larger yield from landed property and
buildings, Mars has to be well posited in a horoscope.

When Mars becomes evil by owning bad houses (6, 8 & 12) or
by occupying such houses, it makes one arrogant, adamant and
atrocious, The person will be extravagant, impulsive and rash. Haste
brings about waste. He will lose honour, money and position. He or
she will have no peace, be ever quarreling and violent. Disharmony,
dispute and difficulties are the malefic effects of Mars. Accidents,
injury, death by fire, wound, burns and even murder are the horrors
of Mars.

Especially to ladies, it must be a benefic. Otherwise, it is
likely that in infancy they may have injuries caused by fire. Mars
does not allow the children to have satisfactory growth due to liver
enlargement, or they will easily contract the various infectious
diseases due to lack of resistance in the system. Later in Life, It is
likely that they may suffer from menstrual troubles as Moon and
Mars indicate this peculiarity in their charts.
=== PAGE 0059 ===
55

When parents attempt to fix the marriage of their sons
daughters, the so-called Mars Dosha, interpreted by the
astrologers according to their whims and fancies, confuses them
due to varying opinion given by them. After marriage, Mars
has to offer peace and harmony in married life. Brother-in-
law and sister-in-law should not make their life unhappy.
She also should not suffer from Hysteria, or fits. When the wife
is in the family way there should be no albumin in the urine.
Nor, at the time of delivery, surgeon's aid is to be sought
for. Mars can cause profuse bleeding haemorrhage etc.
Later, to maintain good relationship with brothers to purchase
building, lands, etc. Mars has to be ruling and occupying
favourable houses. To avoid accidents and injuries and to
have no unnatural death, Mars has to be favourable. Thus it
will be seen that Mars hasto be strong and beneficial in
the horoscope of the bride especially.

Generally, God will wait, watch and will finally punish, but
the kings will do harm suddenly and surprisingly without any
delay : Mars will act like kings. Probably that is why people
are frightened about Mars Dosha.

Let me first of all reproduce the various rules and finally
offer my opinion.

When is Mars called evil or When does it causes 'Dosha ?'

“Dhampathyor Janmakalae
vyaya dhana hipukae sapthamae
Lagna rantbrae lagnacha,
Chandracha sukrath abi Bavathi"
"Dhanae vyayae cha Pathalae
Jamithrae cha ashtamae kujae"

"Lagna, Indu, Sukrath, Dussthanae"

are the authorities to decide when Mars becomes an evil. Here
the sages have not taken into consideration, the nature and the
lordship of the sign occupied by Mars, its other connections,
etc. They go step by step. First they mention the houses, which,
when occupied by Mars, cause Mars Dosha.
=== PAGE 0060 ===
56

One has to count from the Lagna (Ascendant), from the sign
occupied by Moon (not the house or the Bhava), from the sign
occupied by Venus (not the house), The calculation is from sign to
sign and not house to house.

Lagna
28°

Moon
18°

° Venus
Mars 2 JR°

For example, Lagna is in Gemini 28°; Moon 18° Leo; Venus
28° Scorpio; and Mars 2° Sagittarius. Calculate sign to sign alone.
Forget the division of houses, Where is Lagna ? It is in Gemini. (It
may be the Ist degree or the last degree. Whatever it is, count the
sign Gemini as 1.) Then Moon is in the 3rd sign and Venus is in 6.

Mars is in 7 counted from Lagna. Hence, there is Mars
Dosha counted from Lagna.

Moon is in Leo 18°. Mars is in Sagittarius 2°. Forget tbe
longitude of the planets in the signs. Moon is in Leo; so Leo is
1 ; Virgo is 2; Libra is 3; Scorpio is 4; Sagittarius is 5. Therefore
Mars does not cause Mars Dosha when counted from Moon sign.

Venus is in Scorpio 28°; Mars is in 2° Sagittarius. Though it is
only 4° away yet count the signs Scorpio as | and Sagittarius as:
take that Mars is in 2nd sign counted from Venus, and consider that
it will cause Mars Dosha.
=== PAGE 0061 ===
57

Suppose, in the above example, Mars is in !0q Aries ; then it is
in 11 to Lagna 9 to Moon and 6 to Venus, when there is no dosha at
all when counted from Lagna or Moon or Venus. Then they call
such a position of Mars in a horoscope as "Suddha Jatakam", i.e.,
"there is no Mars Dosha at all”.

Mars occupying I, 2, 4, 7, & or 12th houses (signs) counted
from Lagna, Moon and Venus is said to cause "Mars Dosha".

One may ask why should Mars be considered to be evil only
when it occupies 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, or 12th position from Lagna or
Moon or Venus ? Is it a benefic when it occupies any of the other
signs ?

Now, we are considering about the results of Mars during the
period of fixation of marriage, the time of celebration and the state
of married life. We do not judge whether it is favourable or not for
other considerations in life such as finance, fortune, profession, etc.
We are concermed with the health of the couple, harmony among
them and happiness to them.

(a) Lagna or ascendant denotes health, longevity and
personal characteristics. As Lagna will be the 7th
(Maraka) house to the 7th which indicates partner, lagna
also indicates (the maraka) or the end of life of the partner.

(b) The second house denotes the family happiness or
otherwise in domestic life, increase or decrease in the
number of members of the family by marriage, by birth
or death of children, etc. Further, second house is the 8th
to the 7th and it shows the danger and the difficulties to the
partner.

(c) The fourth house denotes domestic environments. The
sages have declared that evils occupying a sign which is
either four or eight from a Bhava, spoil the Bhava. Hence
Mars in 4 is evil to the ascendant, i.e., to the health and
belongings of the native.
=== PAGE 0062 ===
58

(d) The seventh house shows the legal bondage and the wife
or the husband, her or his health, longevity of both and
also the characteristics of the partners, whether they
will have good understanding among themselves or not.
Hence the position of Mars in 7, is not conducive to the
above benefits.

(e) The eighth house shows the difficulties of the native
and the finance and fortune of the partner, as well as
their longevity.

Eighth house is called Mangalya Sthana, i.e., the duration
of the married life. Mars situated in this house is therefore
evil

(f) The twelfth house indicates the real pleasure which the
partners derive, the deception, the loss, etc.

But the 3rd house denotes brother, 5th music, speculation and
offspring, 6th debts and disease, 9th father, 10th profession and 11th
profit etc.

Further, sages have declared that the houses 3, 6, 10 and 11 are
Upachaya Sthanas and that malefics by nature occupying any of the
Upachaya Sthanas will produce desirable results.

Again let us consider the following. Suppose Lagna indicates
your residence. Then houses 2 and 12 are the neighbouring
houses and how can one have peace if these are occupied by wicked
persons. If the bad fellow were to be unjust the opposite house, i.e.,
the 7th then also there is danger for the native. As already
mentioned, the 4th and the 8th houses counted from the Lagna
should not be occupied by evil planets, if good health, happy
domestic environments and a long spell of pleasant wedded life are
to be enjoyed.

In certain horoscopes, there may be dosha when counted
from Venus, Moon and Lagna (Example 1).
=== PAGE 0063 ===
59

Mars is in 12 to Venus, in 2 to Moon and in 4 to Lagna.

Lagna
Example |
Venus Mars Moon
2. It may be in one of the evil houses counted from Moon

and Lagna not from Venus. (Example 2).

Lagna

Example 2

Venus Mars Moon

=== PAGE 0064 ===
60

3. Mars may be in any of the evil houses counted from
Moon and Venus and not from Lagna. (Example 3).

Mars MOON
Venus Lagna
Example 3
4. Mars may be in any of the evil houses counted from

Venus and Lagna and not from Moon. (Example 4).

Lagna Venus

Mars

Example 4

Moon

=== PAGE 0065 ===
61

5. Mars may be evil from Lagna and not from Moon or
Venus. (Example 5).

Venus

Mars Lagna

Example 5

Moon

6. Mars may be said to cause dosha by occupying an evil
sign counted from Venus and not from Lagna or Moon.
(Example 6).

Moon Lagna Venus

Example 6

Mars

=== PAGE 0066 ===
62

7. Mars is not evil when counted from Lagna and Venus.
But it may occupy an evil sign counted from Moon. (Example 7),

Mars Venus
Lagna
Example 7
Moon
8. Mars may be free from Mars Dohsa when counted from

Venus, Moon and Lagna. ( Example 8 & 9).

Moon venus

Mars

Example 8

Venus Lagna

=== PAGE 0067 ===
63

Moon

Example 9

Mars

Venus Lagna

It is said that the evil results of Mars, when counted from
Venus, is much more pronounced than when it is in houses
1, 2, 4, 7, 8, or 12th from Moon. Evil results of Mars from Moon are
more evil than those counted from Lagna. In other words, the dosha
caused by the position of Mars counted from the Lagna is not as
much as it is when counted from Moon. In fact the dosha caused by
the position of Mars counted from Venus is the strongest.

It is also said that Mars in the sth house is not so bad as it would
be if it were in the other houses. They add that Mars in s can cause
delay in fixing the marriage; there may be some difficulty or
difference of opinion in any matter which will cause delay during the
negotiation of the marriage. Also the partner will be outspoken and
extravagant.

A few authors declare that Mars occupying the 2nd or the 7 th
houses counted from Lagna or Moon or Venus in a female
horoscope cannot cause dosha.

So... also Mars in | or 4 or 8 counted from Lagna, Moon or
Venus in a male's chart will not be harmful.
=== PAGE 0068 ===
64

Mitigation of the affliction of Mars: or "Dosha Parihara"

1/ (a) If Mars occupies either Aries (Mesha, or Scorpio
(Vrischika) which it owns or (b) its exalted sign, Capricorn
(Makara) or (c) its debilitated sign Cancer (Kataka) and if those
signs happen to be either the 4th or the 7th counts from Lagna or
the sign occupied by Moon or Venus, the evil results of Mars will
be warded off.

' Chathush Sapthamako Bhowmo
Mesha Karkati Nagraha |

Yatha Rasm Subha: Proktha :
Kujath Dosha Na Vidhyathae" ||

It is applicable to both the bride and the bridegroom. As a
matter of fact, the following rules are applicable to both.

If Mars is in Aries (Mesha) , then it is the 4th to
Capricorn or 7th to Libra. Therefore those born with
Lagna or Moon or Venus in Capricorn or Libra,
hiving Mars in Aries, will be free from Mars Dosha,
according to this rule.

Mars

Lagna
Moon
venus
Lagna
Moon

venus

=== PAGE 0069 ===
65

Similarly, for people born in Leo (Simha) Taurus
or (Rishaba), Mars in Scorpio will not do harm.

Mars
4or7

If Mars is exalted in Capricorn (Makara) it will be the 4th to
Libra (Thula) and seventh to Cancer (Kataka). Therefore people
born with Lagna or Moon or Venus in these signs, i.e., Cancer or
Libra having Mars in Capricorn will have no dosha. If Mars is
debilitated in the chart by occupying Cancer which is the 4th to
Aries (Mesha) and 7th to Capricorn (Makara), it cannot cause
damage to those bom with Lagna or Moon or Venus in Aries or
Capricorn.

2. There are twelve signs in the Zodiac. The Ist, 4th, 7th
and the 10th houses, viz., Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn are
termed as movable signs. If Mars were to occupy either of these
signs and if that sign happens to be | or 2 or 4 or 8 or 12 counted
from Lagna or Moon or Venus, tho evil results of Mars will not
operate.

"Chara Rasi Gathow Bowma
Chathur Ashta Vyayae Dwayae
Lagna Papa vinachasyath
Chasbae papo visheshadha || "
=== PAGE 0070 ===
66

This author has omitted the 7th house whereas, in the rule cited
earlier, it has been clearly stated that Mars in these 4 signs when it
happens to be the 7th, will lose its malefic effects. So we have to
take that Mars in movable signs is incapable of causing dosha
whether it is the 1 st or 2nd or the 4th or the 7th or the 8th or the
12th counted from Lagna or Moon sign or Venus.

"Sthana Panchako doshaha: Kujasya Gurunatha va |
Budhaena Saha Samsthithya Dhrishtae va naiva sambhaveth ||"

Here it is said that Mars in I or 2 or 4 or 8 or 12, if conjoined
with, or aspected by, either Jupiter (Guru) or Mercury (Bhudha)
loses its evil results.

"Ravi Indhu Kshethra Jathanam Kuja Dosha Na Vidhyathae |
Swecha, Mithrala Jathanam Thath Dosham Na Bhavaeth Kila ||"

If Mars occupies Leo (Simha) ruled by Sun or Cancer (Kataka)
owned by Moon, or its own signs Aries (Mesha) and Scorpio
(Vrischika) or its exalted sign Capricorn (Makara) or its friends
quarters, it does not continue to be evil.

Mars In 2:— It is also declared
"Dwitheeya Kuja Doshasyath Mesba Vrischika Yore Vina" and
" Dwitheeyae Bhowma Doshasthu Yugma KanyakayoreVina."

So if Mars occupies Mesha, Vrischika, Mithuna and Kanni i.e., the
houses owned by Mars and Mercury and it happens to be the second
house counted from Lagna or Moon or Venus, these is no evil effect.

Mars In 4: —

"Chaturthae Kuja Doshasyath = Thula Vrishaba yore Vina | "
"Chathurthae Bhowma Doshasthu Mesha Vrischika Yore Vina ||"
=== PAGE 0071 ===
67

If Mars occupies Venus signs, Libra or, Taurus, or its own
signs, Mesha or Vrischika, and it happens to be the 4th house, there
can be no Mars dosha.

Mars in 7:--

"Vi Sapthama Bhowma Doshasthu
Nagraha Karkata Yore Vina"

Even though Mars in 7 is said to be harmful, yet if it is
in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio or Capricorn there is no dosha at all.

Mars in 8

"Ashtamae Bhowma Doshasthu
Dhanur Meenadhvayore Vina |"

"Ashtamae Khuja doshasyath
Kataka Makarayore Vina ||"

Therefore Mars, occupying the signs of Jupiter, Sagittarius or
Pisces or its debilitated sign Cancer, or exalted sign Capricorn, if it
happens to be the 8th sign counted from Lagna or Moon or Venus,
cannot cause damage.

Mars in 12 :—

"Vyayaecha, Khuja Doshasyath
Kanya Mithunayore Vina |"

"Dwadhasae Bhowma Doshasthu
Vrisha Dhowlikayore Vina ||"

So if Mars occupies the signs owned by Mercury or Venus
and if it happens to be the 12th house counted from Lagna or
Moon or Venus, it loses its evil effects.

If Mars occupies the 12th house in both the bride's and the
bridegroom's charts, the evil result of one will cancel that of the
other. They will agree.

Some sages say that Saturn, Rahu and Kethu conjoining
with Mars, or Saturn, aspecting Mars wards off the evil.

"Guru Mangala Samyogae
Bhowma Dosha Na Vidhyathae.”
=== PAGE 0072 ===
68

Hence Jupiter and Mars within 8° shows no evil through Mars,
If Guru occupies the 12th house to Mars, i.e., if Mars is in the
second house counted from Jupiter, there will be delay in getting
married.

"Chandra Mangala Samyogae
Bhowma Dosho Na Vidhyathae."

Moon and Mars in one sign assures that the evil effect on
Mars will be nullified.

Thus regarding Mars Dosha, there are various rules expounded
in Devakerala, Horasasthra, Jataka Chandrika, Naradheeyam, etc.,
and by Atrimaha Rishi, Garga and others.

to sum up :— Mars may be in 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 or 12 houses from
Lagna or Moon or Venus. If it is in Mesha or Vrischika—
own signs, there is no dosha.

Mars in Venus signs cannot do harm if it is the 4th or 7th
house.

Mars in Mercury signs will have its evil results warded off
if it is in the 2nd house.

Mars has no dosha in the houses owned by Sun, Moon
and Saturn.

Evil results of Mars cannot operate if the sign occupied by
Mars is ruled by Jupiter and happens to be the 8th.

Now let us consider how to match horoscopes and fix up
the marriage.

1, If, in the bride's chart, there is Mars dosha; select such
a bridegroom who also has more or less similar Mars Dosha.

2. If, in the bride's chart, there is Mars Dosha, due to its
relative position counted from Lagna or Moon or Venus and there is
Parihara or modification due to some disposition or conjunction with
the modifying planet or aspect by a benefic, match it with that of the
bridegroom in whose chart also there is the dosha of Mars and also
the modification.
=== PAGE 0073 ===
69

3. If there is no dosha at all in the bride's chart and it is
termed as Suddha Jathakam, match it with one which has no
dosha at all.

You know that Mars denotes Erythrocytes, Red bone-
marrow, blood, etc. Suppose a person has lost blood due to any
accident or delivery, etc., then the medical attendant gives
transfusion of blood. Mind you, he cannot give the blood of any
person, kept in the Blood Bank. He has to carry out an examination
of the blood of the patient and from his test be is to ascertain
whether tbe blood of the patient belongs to ‘A’ Group or 'B' Group
or 'O' group. There are 3 main groups. To which group his blood
belongs is to be ascertained. Then, the same blood group alone is to
be given to the patient. Il he gives any other blood, say blood
belonging to another group, blood will precipitate, clot and he will
die.

Similarly, there are three groups in Mars Dosha :

1. There is dosha in the chart without any modification.

2. There is dosha in the chart with modification and miti-
gation.

3. There is no dosha at all.

It is, therefore, necessary that Astrologers should carefully
weigh and consider the various points of Mars Dosha in the given
charts and advise on the correct match.

To cause difference of opinion, disagreement, dispute,
divorce etc. among the couple it is not left to Mars alone, any
planet can cause such undesirable effect provided they happen
to be deposited in such a position, that the sublord of the planet is the
significator of 6, 10 or 12 or the sublord is deposited in a
constellation, the lord of which is the significator of 6, 10 or 12.

If the same planet is also the significator of 2 or 7 or 11 then it
will be only for a short period and again they unite and continue to
live together.

If the sublord is either Mars or if it is in the constellation of
Mars, and if it is the significator of 6 or 10 or 12, there will be
violence and separation, if it is Saturn, silence and remain dumb-sit
and strike. Thus we have to predict.
=== PAGE 0074 ===
70

TIME OF MARMAGE

By Marriage, it is meant that one more member is added to
the family which is indicated by the second house. This addition
is on an agreement which is denoted by the seventh house and
such an additional member brings permanent tie of friendship for
pleasure and progeny, shown by the 11th house. That is why houses
2, 7 and 11 are examined to find out whether—

(a) marriage is promised or not ;

(b) the description of the partner ; his or her ruling planets;
whether already related or not: his or her features
characteristics, profession etc.;

(c) time of marriage ; and

(d) state of married life; (1) whether it is a harmonious
one promising an inseparable temperament or (2) the
couple without any attachment, simply to maintain the
prestige of the family, manage to live in the same premises
or (3) to lead the life like cat and rats especially during day
time even though the couple may become the parents of
many children or (4) to be going on marrying and
divorcing.

is the marriage promised or not ?

Marriage is celebrated in youth or in proper age if
(according to Hindu system)

(a) Moon and Venus occupy fruitful signs, Taurus-Rishaba
Cancer-Katakal Scorpio-Vrichikat Pisces-Meena and also
Sagittarius-Dhanus ;

(b) orif the 7th Cusp falls in any of these signs

(c) or Jupiter-Guru or Venus-Sukra occupy the houses 2
Torll;

(d) or Jupiter is conjoined with Moon in 1, 5, 10, 11;
(e) Venus is conjoined with Moon in 1, 5, 10, or 11;

(f) and Moon as well as Venus is not aspected by Saturn,
but is stronger than Saturn ;
=== PAGE 0075 ===
71

(g) or lord of Lagna is conjoined with lord of 7 and
occupies a favourable house ;

(h) or lord of Lagna and lord of 7 are in 3 and 11 or 5 and to
each other;

(i) 9 or benefics occupy 2 or 7 or 11 counted from Lagna
and Moon sign;

(j) or the houses 2 or 7 or 11 have favourable connection
with benefics;

(k) or benefic in 7 and both lord of Lagna and lord of 7
are strong and well posited ;

(1) or Venus is in his own or exalted sign and lord of 7 in
beneficial house ;

(m) or Mercury in 7 and Venus conjoined with lord of 7;
(n) or lord of 7 is in 11 and Venus in 2 ;
(o) or Venus is in Lagna and Lord of Lagna is in 7;

(p) or if there is mutual exchange between lords of 1 and
7 when it is termed as Madhana Gopalyoga ;

(q) or Jupiter is exalted in 7th house conjoined with
benefics

(r) or Venus is strong in the 7th house;

(s) or lord of 7, Venus, occupies the 2nd house ;
(t) or lord Lagna is in 10 and lord of 2 is in 11 ;
(u) or benefics in 1 or 2 or 7;

(v) or lord of 2 and 11 in mutual exchange;

(w) or lord of 2 and 7 in 11;

(x) or (according to Western System) Moon and Venus
occupy beneficial houses and _ receive harmonious
aspects, in the male's map ;

(vy) or Sun and Mars in bride's chart occupy favourable
houses and receive good aspects from other planets ;

(z) or a benefic is transiting very close to the Ascendant or
7th Cusp at the time of birth in the 12th house or
6th house;
=== PAGE 0076 ===
72

If it is an arranged marriage, the parents do not take much
pains to find out the bridegroom ; if it is a love marriage, then
also the couple do not take a long time to give expression to
their love and to celebrate it.

The following chart is that of a girl who got married at the
age of 12 ; her birth was on 29—6— 1926 at 19. G. 45 V.

Mars Venus Sun
Rahu
Jupiter
Moon Mercury
Lagna
t
Ketu Saturn

Balance of Mars dasa 2 years, 10 months and 19 days. The date
of marriage was 11-7-1938, on a Monday in Moolam star. She was
running Rahu dasa Mercury bhukti Moon anthra.

Marriage is Promised but it comes off late in life:

(a) if Saturn is either in 1, 3, 5 or 7 or 10 counted from
Lagna or Moon sign and if he does not own beneficial
houses.

(b) if malefics are in the 7th Bhava, receiving adverse
aspects from Jupiter or Uranus;

(c) if Mars is in the 8th house ;

(d) if Moon and Saturn conjoin together especially in 1, 2,
or 11;
=== PAGE 0077 ===
73

( e) if Mars and Venus are conjoined together 5,7 or 9 and
both receive evil aspects from Jupiter or Uranus.

(f) if the lord of 7 and Venus are aspected by Saturn ;

(g) if the Moon and Venus are squared by Jupiter or Uranus.

There will be many proposals, one after another they will fall
through and years will pass on. The parents and the bride will
get so much dejected and vexed that the bride decides to remain
unmarried. But, at last, a fresh negotiation will come up with a
new party and the marriage will be fixed and celebrated suddenly.

The following ones are the charts of two individuals : one
male and another female and both are to be married.

Born on 2-4-1926 Friday at 39 G 40 V in Anuradha star
with a balance of Saturn dasa for 9 years 11 months and 27 days.

Sun
Mercury Rahu
Venus
MALE
Rasi
Man
Jupiter
Lagna
Ketu Moon
Satum

Moon dasa Balance : 2 years, 6 m. & 19 days (for the girls)
In the chart of the boy-
Lords of 2 and 11 are in debilitation. Venus, lord of 7, in 4

will offer the marriage.

S
=== PAGE 0078 ===
74

Ketu

Saturn
GIRL
Rasi
28—12—1935
5-58 p.m.
Moon
Mars
Sun
Mercury Jupiter Venus
Rahu

Moon and Jupiter, forming favourable aspect, will, on a
later date, settle a family life on you.

Hence, Venus Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra will give
the marriage, at the end of January 1965 itself.
In the Girl's horoscope

(a) Evil node in 7 shows delay (Rahu);
(b) Mars ins shows hindrances and obstacles ;

(c) Saturn aspect the 11th house ;
The above are the indications showing that the marriage will
be accomplished with great difficulty.

The time of marriage will be during Jupiter Dasa Jupiter
Bhukti, Rahu Anthra on or around 14th July 1965. Actually the
marriage was fixed in June and celebrated on 14-7-1965.

MARRIAGE-PUNARPHOO

Whenever Saturn has got any connection whatsoever with
Moon, there will be some obstacle or impediment, not only during
negotiation but also at the time of fixation and even at the time of
celebration of the marriage. This connection
=== PAGE 0079 ===
75

between Moon and Saturn causes delay, though ultimately both
of them do much more good with a better partner.

Example |

On more an auspicious day. Let us see how Saturn acts.
Instances are many wherein during negotiation, some 2 or 3
horoscopes are being considered to be most suitable ; we do
entertain hopes one after another on all the three; all the three fail ;
later on finally a fourth person is selected. It is one of the many
results offered by Saturn.

Example 2

Next, there are cases wherein the date of marriage is fixed and
during the interval between the time of marriage and the celebration
of the marriage, there will be some obstacle or the other. A few
years ago, when I had been delivering lecture at Bharatiya Vidhya
Bhavan, when there were many students attentively hearing me, two
brothers entered, in a way, disturbed the class and presented a slip to
me. In it, it was said that nearly two months ago, the marriage of the
younger of the two had been fixed and it should be celebrated, nine
days after the day when they met me. I do not remember the exact
date, when it happened, though it is not difficult to find it out.
Before this book is published, if I can find out, I will insert it in the
last. The elder brother asked me to let him know, whether the
marriage will take place on the date, already fixed or it should be
postponed. I asked him "why do you doubt?" 'No, Sir, here is the
horoscope and 1 also will give a number. That which worries us is
that the girl, who is to be married ought to have had her monthly
period even 8 days ago. Till now it had been dragging on and after
all some 8 or 9 days more for the marriage. Therefore, unless she
reports that she is in the monthly period within another 3 or 4 days,
we will not be able to celebrate the marriage at the time already
fixed. But we have to select some other day only after she takes her
bath. We may have to reprint invitation. So whether we are to post
all the invitation letters which are filled up duly, or are we to keep
it, so that we can wait, see and if at all the girl's health will be
alright we can post it ? So it is
=== PAGE 0080 ===
76

really a problem which had been put in the presence of the
students and that too a problem, for which neither our Sages
nor the Saints nor the savants of the Western countries have so
far found out a method to announce the exact moment when the
worry will end. But I immediately applied K. P. and told that
the girl will have the monthly period commenced only on the
same date when they put the query and further I added that they
would get Trunk-call from Kumbakonam, at 10-35 p.m. saying that
the bride had reported to them that she was in the monthly period.
This headache, fear and anxiety were caused by the Punarphoo, that
is the connection between Saturn and Moon, in the horoscope of
both, the boy and the girl.

Now the readers would be eager to know what happened to
the prediction.

It was really an astounding one. Correctly at 10-35, the
bell was ringing, when a few of my students and both the brothers
were just sitting outside, enjoying the cool breeze from the sea.
When they heard the bell and the time was 10-15 p.m. not a minute
earlier or later they rushed inside with full hope that what Prediction
I gave, had come very true. They lifted the Phone, and the Telephone
operator gave connection to Kumbakonam. They said "God is there.
The bride has given green signal. So you can very well Post the
invitation letters,”. They added "Daughter had reported at 8 p.m. that
she was in the monthly period. We tried to contact you from then.
Only now it matured”.

This is one of the many obstacles which is experienced by
some percentage of the people, in spite of the fact that they take
into consideration this affair while fixing up the date.

Example 3

Once a father of a girl came to me and showed the horoscope of
a boy living about 300 miles away from the bride's place. First, I
told him that his daughter could not have her marriage celebrated in
the year in which he consulted me and I added that the marriage
would take place only in the next coming year. I continued and said
that this boy who is working
=== PAGE 0081 ===
77

far away cannot marry this girl ; but her husband must live very
close by, mostly in the same town. This year Saturn which
connected with moon in the chart afflict the lord of the Dasa and
Bhukti. So Saturn and Moon would cause Punarpoo.

Do you know what happened? It is very vary rare and such
instances are very funny. In spite of my prediction, the father of the
girl further proceeded and fixed up the marriage. The Bridegroom
did not distribute invitation letters to one and all in his place. But he
invited only a few personally. All arrived at the town, where the
father of the girl was residing and in the evening according to the
South Indian custom, the boy was to be taken to the temple, and
then from the temple he should be taken by procession. (Probably,
the idea behind our ancient's would be that this boy, who is to be
married the next day, should be shown to many, so that they happen
to be witnesses).

Around 6 p.m. the girl's father took the box in which the shoes
to be presented to the bridegroom was. And then each person took
something to be taken to the temple. All of them with music
Nadhaswaram and Band went to the temporary accommodation
wherein the party of the bridegroom were staying. The father of the
girl invited everyone of them to come to the temple and the boy also
came out with his friends.

In the bride's house, preparations were going on for a grand
dinner in the night. And in the street a car had been adorned with
Jasmine flowers and everything was beautifully arranged. The boy
came out, stepped down to reach the street. One low-born ill-bred,
but a clever fellow with his upper cloth on the hand, straight rushed
to the boy, hurriedly put the upper cloth round his head and then he
made a loop out of it and dragged the boy to the middle of the street.
What a scene! what a confusion. Everybody was stunned. Nobody
knew why such a thing had happened. But the father of the girl
immediately recollected the prediction which I gave. (1) That this
boy cannot marry his daughter. (2) In that year marriage will not
take place. This was flashing in his mind.

Now, that person, who caught hold of the bridegroom gave blows
after blows to the bridegroom and asked him fDo some
=== PAGE 0082 ===
78

thing to this girl. This girl was working in your quarters as a maid
servant. You, a healthy and thirsty bachelor, when you were serving
in the office, you lived in the office residential quarters. You
tempted her; you spoiled her ; you gave her a child ; now what about
this girl and what about the child. They are here, now. Unless you
answer to this, I won't allow you to go and marry the other girl. So
saying this person was going on dragging the bridegroom to a long
distance away from the marriage-pandal though the bridegroom
tried to resist. Guilty Conscience robbed away his strength. Nobody
could venture to mediate. Even boy's parties stood aside being
ashamed. They thought that any interference would be similar to
throwing stone upon some filthy soil, which will emanate much of
foul odor. So all were quiet, Somehow this bridegroom slipped away
from all in that crowd. For hours he could not be seen. Later in the
night, they came to know that he was in the waiting room in a
railway station. While the bridegroom was dragged in the street, the
bride's father got angry and he was so much annoyed that he threw
the shoes on the head of the boy and immediately went to the
kitchen and informed the cooks to stop cooking and went to the car
which was intended for the procession, to remove all the flowers etc.
and take back the car to the shed.

Saturn which caused Punarpoo had indicated that some such
disturbance even to this extent, could be there, to upset the whole
program and postpone the date of marriage or change the
bridegroom. Therefore, whenever astrologers were to read the
horoscopes of the bride and the bridegroom, you should see whether
there is Punarpoo. If Saturn is deposited in the constellation of
Moon and sub of Saturn or if Moon is deposited in Saturn's star and
Moon sub, if Saturn is deposited in the houses 1, 3, 6, 7 and 10,
then, such difficulties may arise. Normally we fix up the date for
marriage. Due to some reason or the other we change the date, to
suit the convenience of both the parties. So with pleasure, it is done.
But there, where Saturn causes the delay, there will be much of
expenses, mental worries etc. Therefore it is absolutely necessary,
whether one can take a decision and accordingly act or one has to
necessarily consider 2 or 3 dates, 2 or 3 horoscopes and at last when
=== PAGE 0083 ===
79

the time of marriage comes, then, to enter into a contract with the
other party. , One should proceed cautiously and slowly till the date
of marriage nears.

Example 4

While I was working in King Institute, Guindy, my colleague
had a son aged about 24 to be married. He was working as the
Inspector in the Transport Department.

No doubt, many parents of the girls of marriageable age
approached him and one of them offered an attractive dowry. The
father of the boy, my colleague wanted to see the girl. The girl's
father showed the Photo of the girl. He was pleased and accepted
the dowry. He gave me Rs. 400/- to purchase woollen suiting from
Bangalore which place I had to visit on duty in a couple of days.

I bought the woolen things. Few days passed. In the
meanwhile, the sister of the boy given in marriage was living in the
next house to that of the girl with whom the marriage is arranged.
That girl wrote a letter in such a way that the boy should reject the
offer. She did not write to my colleague, her father, but she wrote to
her brother, the bridegroom.

Since we were colleagues, his son knew me very well. So he
narrated to me, what he heard from his sister and sought my advice.
I told him "Go and see the girl. In your horoscope and the horoscope
of the girl both Moon and Saturn are conjoined together. Her Star is
the 5th star to that of yours. In that manner, it agrees. But there is
the Punarpoo, Therefore, you go and see the girl. I am sure, you will
reject her. After having received the money to reject an offer, there
should he a sound and satisfactory reason. You can see the girl and
reject. That is entirely left to you. Nobody can question it. So, you
do like that," I replied.'

He went to see the girl, taking the photo with him. According
to photo she was thin and one could see the neck. But when be went
to the girl's house and looked as the girl along with his sister, the
bride was very fat. . :The photo was taken four years ago, and in
those four years she had put on weight to the extent
=== PAGE 0084 ===
80

that the head and the body appeared together. The neck was short
and stout. So he told the father of the girl, "Sir, even though this
photo belongs to your daughter, she has put on so much weight that
I don't like. Therefore, you write to my father and get back the
dowry which you paid to him."

Thus the marriage was stopped. She married another boy and
he married another girl. This is the way how Punarpoo will act.

One may ask "Did you offer prediction for this match? " I
need not say that they consulted me and I told even though there is
the Poruttham, there is no Proptham.

I definitely told him that his son can never marry this girl. At
that time, I had not been running a Magazine, so I could not publish
then and there. Similar instances are many. According to the
Traditional Astrology, 25 per cent of the population in the world
will have the Dasa Poruttham to marry that girl because, say out of
100 people, 50 males 50 females. Out of 50 boys, in Dasa
Poruttham, exactly 50 per cent of the horoscopes, must agree.
therefore, when we see Poruttham, majority of the charts agree. But
proptham, when you judge the ruling planets clearly indicate that
one can marry only one of the other sex.

Will the married life be happy ?

Excepting a few, most of the people, though they do not
have good understanding with their partners, yet they pull on
with dissatisfaction. A few lead an enviable life with
inseparable temperament. A few misbehave and divorce.

Happy married life:

(1) Jupiter or Venus being the lord of the sub of 7th cusp
and being significator of 2 or 11.

(2) Mercury, Moon, or Sun being the significator of 7
receiving beneficial aspect from 11th house significator.

(3) Sun or Moon in 7 with mutual good aspect from the
other being the significator of 2 or 11,
=== PAGE 0085 ===
81

(4) Either of the luminaries in 7 aspected by Jupiter or
Venus favourably being the significator of 2 or 11.

(5) Venus, Mars and Uranus in good aspect is very
advantageous provided they are not tbe significator of
6 or 10 or 12.

(6) if Moon receiving good aspect from Saturn, Venus and
Jupiter is auspicious. The couple will give expression
to their pleasant feeling. Playful during union.

(7) If the 7th house to Lagna or Moon sign is occupied by
or aspected by benefics by lordship, one will have
happy married life.

(8) Venus in | or 2 or and of the Upachaya sthanas,

receiving good aspect shows peace, pleasure and
prosperity after marriage provided it is not in the sub
of the significator of 6 or 10 or 12. If it has both good
and bad aspects, during the conjoined period of Venus and
the planet forming good aspect one enjoys Ufe. During the
conjoined period of Venus and the planet forming evil
aspect there will be disagreement and dissatisfaction.

Married Life-Unhappy :

(1) If Sun forms evil aspect with moon and either is the
significator of 2 or 7 or 11.

(2) Malefics in 7 receiving bad aspect from the signifi-
cators of 6 or 10 or 12.

(3) Mars in 7 receiving bad aspect from Uranus, violence,
separation-Saturn also forming evil aspect, divorce. So
also, evil aspect to the 7th or 11th Cusp, brings misfortune.

(4) Moon, Saturn, Uranus or Mars as significator of 7
having mutual adverse aspect or deposited in evil sub
causes enmity during union.

(5) Venus receiving bad aspect from tbe above planets
does not allow pleasant union.
=== PAGE 0086 ===
82

(6) Moon forming disharmonious aspect with Jupiter,
shows dissatisfaction.

(7) Mars in 8th in the sub of JupiterVPartner extravagant
leads to financial trouble-followed by domestic
trouble.

(8) Mars in Moon sub threatens that the partner is short
tempered, hasty and violent; cannot be controlled ; may be
a drunkard especially when either occupies a watery sign.

(9) Mercury In 7, afflicted by Moon, Mars, Neptune or Uranus,
partner: nervous breakdown

(10) 7th and 11th Cusp afflicted shows that the trouble will
ever be there. Planets in 7 or 11 receiving good aspect
show temporary harmony during the periods. If they also
receive bad aspect, it is a hell.

(11) 7th and 11th Cusp receiving good aspect shows mostly
pleasure. Bad aspect to occupant will temporarily
upset.

pleasure with plurality of persons:

(1) Venus and Uranus forming evil aspect gives pleasure
with girls to be married.

(2) Moon forming bad aspect with Venus—pleasure with
other's partners.

(3) Moon, Venus Uranus and Neptune in 1,2,5,7,or 11,—
enjoys with other. Saturn keeps it confidential and secret.
Mars and Mercury threaten that one will carry on without
delicacy or fear even though it is an open secret. If Jupiter
forms good aspect, there it no complication. If Jupiter
forms evil aspect;- child may be born, the other party may
take law in her hands, drag the person to the Court, claim
property etc. Pleasure will end in pains.

(4) Mars, Venus and Saturn conjoined together or aspect-
ting each other shows unnatural and uncommon desire
=== PAGE 0087 ===
83

connection with low born, ill-bred people, servants etc.
Stoops to mean action. Neptune forming evil aspect
indicates that he may behave like a lapdog.

(5) Venus and Mercury in 7 or 8 or 10.
(6) Mars and Venus 7 or 10.

(7) Saturn in 7 and Venus in 10 to Moon.
(8) Lord of 6 in 6 or 8 or 12.

(9) Lord of 2, 7 and 10 in 10.

(10) Mars, Venus and Saturn in any manner connected with

each other and occupy any sign in the map.
(11) Lord of 2 in 3 or 4.

(12) Lord of 7 in 1 or 7—limited.
(13) Lord of 7 in 2 or 12—unlimited.
(14) Lord of 1 and 7 in Parivarthana yoga—unlimited.

(15) Saturn, Mars and Moon in 7, both will have friends to
augment pleasure.

(16) Sun in 7—the partner may be barren.

(17) Mars in 7—never hesitates to have pleasure even during
monthly course.

(18) Mercury in 7—enjoys with intelligent, Vaisya or career
woman.

(19) Jupiter in 7 with good natured girl.

(20) Venus or Rahu in 7- pregnant woman.
(21) Saturn in 7—old, elder hump backed or dirty woman.
(22) Moon in 9—old, aged person.

Two wives;

(1) Lord of 1 or 7, weak—more than one wife.

(2) Second house indicates second marriage,, Lord of 2 in
9 and a malefic in 7
=== PAGE 0088 ===
84

(3) Lord of 8 in 1 or 7.
(4) 3 or 4 evil planets in 7.
(5) Many planets in 7 unaspected by ford of 2.

(6) Planets in exaltation in Lagna, Lord of Lagna in exalta-
tion and malefic in 2 .

(7) Lord of 1, 2 and 6 in conjunction and malefic in 7.

(8) Venus-very strong in Lagna receiving aspect from
Mars-boldly errs : Saturn aspecting Venus; shows
that one is funky to go ahead.

As per K.P. if the sublord of 7th cusp is either Mercury
or any planet occupying dual Sign, more than one wife.

Age difference between Partners:

According to Krishnamurti System consider the lord of the
constellation and the sub lord. They indicate whether the wife is
aged or young: so also in the bride's chart. one is to judge the
difference in age between husband and wife.

(1) Saturn ruling the constellation or sub where 7th cusp
falls, husband an aged person. So the difference is much.

(2) Jupiter, Venus and Sun denote proper difference in age,
if they rule the constellation and sub.

(3) If Mars or Mercury or Moon rule the constellation or
sub, the difference is very little. Husband will be young.

(4) In each chart, find out whom Rahu or Ketu indicate.
Accordingly read the result.

Union:

(a) If the 7th Cusp falls in the constellation of Sun or sub of
Sun, repulsion-no pleasure.

(b) Ifthe 7th Cusp falls in the constellation of Moon or sub
of Moon, very pleasant, like Honey Moon.

(c) if Mars rules, during union silly quarreling male forces
female to have intercourse-displeasure exceeds pleasure
=== PAGE 0089 ===
85

(d) If Mercury governs, expresses one's desire, talks a lot
of time and enjoys more than once to complete the
course as there could be some disturbance while on.

(e) If Jupiter is the lord, normal; pleasant; dutiful.

(f) If Venus rules, 64 varieties of Leela. Both will have
extreme pleasure: dance: many a kiss increases the
Bliss.

(g) If Saturn is the lord, after intercourse, dissatisfaction,
displeasure, disharmony. Duration very short.

Direction and locality of the partner :

If the lord of the sub or the sub occupied by the significator
owns the house 4 or 10. the partner may be a co-tenant, or live in-
one«s street, town, district etc: After marriage it does not involve a
journey to reach husband's place.

If the lord owns 3rd house, the partner may be a cousin or a
neighbour or one living at a short distance which can be reached by
making land travel for a few hours of one fixed by correspondence,
advertisement, etc;

If it owns the 11th house, he or she comes from friend's
family.

If it owns 5 or 9 ; stranger, love marriage, foreigner, long
distance. Thus one is to judge.

Profession of partner :

Consider the houses 4, 8 and 12.

(a) Planets in the constellation of the occupants of the
houses 4, 8 and 12 ;

(b) occupants in 4, 8 and 12;
(c) Planets in the constellation of the lords of 4, 8 and 12 ;

(d) lords of 4, 8 and 12 show his or her profession. From the
significator s, decide the profession. In male's horoscope if Mars is a
significator of the houses 4, 8 or 12. he will have a career woman as
wife.
=== PAGE 0090 ===
86

Characteristics: Note the lords of the sign, star and sub where
the 7th cusp has fallen. They indicate the characteristic of the first
partner. The lords of the Sign, Star and Sub where the cusp of the
second house falls indicate the characteristics of the second partner,
if there are two marriages.

Physical features; Just like characteristic is judged, so also
ascertain the partner's physical features from the lord of the sign, the
lord of the constellation and the lord of the sub of the cusp of 7 for
first marriage, cusp of 2 for second marriage and so on.

Who Survives Whom ?

According to Hindus, malefics in 8 are evil. Benefic in 2 wards
off the evil. If there is no benefic aspect to the 8th house ; but there
is a malefic in 8, the person survives the partner. This rule fails.

But correct results can be had, if the Sublord of the 7th Cusp
occupies a dual sign and it happens to bc the significator of
marakasthana and Bhadhakasthana, wife passes away earlier. The

same rule applies to 2nd wife and you have to judge the 2nd cusp
sublord.

TO FIND OUT THE PHYSICAL FEATURE
AND CHARACTERISTIC OF THE PARTNER

The best and the most correct method of finding out the
physical feature of the would-be-partner; Note the sub-lord of the
7th cusp. Find out in which sign the sub-lord is posited. The result
depends on the nature of the planet and also the sign occupied by it.

If the sub-lord of the seventh cusp is SUN and it is deposited in
or the lord of the constellation is Sun in which sublord of 7 is in.

Aries: Middle statue, strong and well-made, complexion good,
full eyes; bold, noble, will assert his right, comes out
victorious, proud, social success.
=== PAGE 0091 ===
87

Taurus; Short and well set. Not very fair, broad mouth, broad
face, strong sportsman or athletic, over-confident, not proud, good
debater, argues well and wins.

Gemini; Above average in height, well proportioned body,
moderate complexion, long nose, piercing eye, most courteous,
tactful, accommodative, can be influenced by others, pleasing
manners.

Cancer: Short stature, repulsive face, not beautiful.
Therefore do not approach any astrologer to know about the
features of your would-be wife or husband when Sun is transitting
in Cancer. If by chance it happens to be the sub-lord of the
7th cusp, he had to predict the distasteful ones. So avoid
between 15th July and 17th August. Temperament good,
harmless, cheerful, fond of other, sex (within himself), admires
music, dance, sports, lazy, does not like to work.

Leo: Strong well-built, moderate complexion, big eyes, round
and big face, most faithful and reliable, very punctual always,
fair and just in his actions, ambitious and successful.

Virgo; Tall person with slender stature and good complexion
very dark hair, fond of music and ever singing, always smiling and
never provoking, cheerful, pleasant, spends much time on
recreations.

Libra: Tall, straight upright body. Big eyes, thin hair, beautifull,
never bold but ever talking about war, riot, etc. not much reliable,
weak in his attachments and will find difficult to speak truth (For
whom does the beauty appeal. Reject such a partner) .

Scorpio: Square built, fleshy, full growth, broad face, moderate
complexion, ingenious, very clever, discoverer, very brisk,
ambitious, never accepts defeat or consider anybody as his or her
equal. Fortunate.

Sagittarius: Tall, beautiful,, body well proportioned, face oval,
ever-estimate one's ability, austere, severe, plans for big thing
=== PAGE 0092 ===
88

Capricorn : Thin built, lean, wiry, tall long nose, soft hair
sickly appearance, pleasing manners, nasty occasionally, makes
many friends, commands others goodwill.

Aquarius:Tall, well made, round face, good complexion,
tolerably good disposition, never deceitful, proud, ostentatious.

Pisces : Short, stout, protruded eyes, plumpy body, round face,
unjust, partial, fond of pleasures, extravagant, hence spoils himself,
unfit to be a referee in the sports and games.

If the sublord of the 7th cusp is Moon and Moon is
deposited in or the lord of the Constellation in which Sublord of
7 is Moon and it is.

Aries:-Fleshy and plumpy, round face, fair complexion,
adamant, aggressive, argumentative, avaricious, atrocious, aspiring,
ambitious, authoritative etc.

Taurus:-Strong well-built body, just below average in height,
good looking, fair complexion, polite, modest, moderate fair, honest,
helpful, pleasing.

Gemini: Tall, well built, upright, good complexion,
Ingenius, unsteady, lacks decision, not fortunate in profession

Cancer:- Average height, well built, little fleshy person,
rounded face, moderate complexion, can be easily influenced,
changeable, pleasant manners, harmless, cares more for peace, fond
of company, fortunate, fond of traveling.

Leo: Well built, average height, moderate complexion, big
eyes, proud, ambitious, never desires to be submissive and serve as a
subordinate, independent and unfortunate.

Virgo: Tall, face oval, good complexion, very clever,
reserved, gloomy, unlucky, depressed, dejection.

Libra: Tall good personality, beautiful, good complexion,
humorous, witty pleasant, ever-smiling, fond of amusements, cares
more for the appreciation from the other sex and be happy over it,
not always fortunate.

Scorpio :-Below average in height, stout, complexion not good
most impulsive and irregular, not a desirable partner always and
these will be found in the partner-
=== PAGE 0093 ===
89

Sagittarius:- Beautiful, honest, true, person with well-
built body and oval face, generous hasty and passionate, lucky.

Capricorn: Thin weak body, complexion not good, health poor,
tall-busby hair growth, most dull, inactive, pessimistic, selfish,
idiot, even friends and youngsters ignore him.

Aquarius:-Moderate in height, well made, good complexion.
very intelligent, fit to carry on research, most courteous and never
offensive, studious, never guilty of any crime.

Pisces: Below average, plumpy, fleshy, fat bloated face, like a
pumpkin potbellied, mostly eyes closed by the flesh and appearing
like sleeping person, most inactive, active only for pleasure.
Unsteady, inconstant and unfortunate.

If the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is rushed by Mars and if
Mars would be occupying the following signs or if the sublord is
in the constellations of Mars which is in;

Aries ; - Moderate height, well built, large bones, curling hair,
dark complexion, very bold, rash, undaunted, over-confident, very
proud, quarrelsome, ever gains.

Taurus: Moderate height, strong and well-built rough and
coarse hair, moderate complexion, broad mouth and face, self,
indulgence, arrogant, speculative, unfortunate.

Gemini:-Very tall, complexion not good, well-proportioned
body always active, mischievous, restless, clever, cunning, changes
residence often, never repays loan (Once an elderly person visited
the house of his friend. The guest gave a 10 rupee note to the newly
born grandchild and tried to take it back. The child held it tight. The
host asked the visitor what the matter was. The visitor who had lent
money to this person 3 years ago and did not get even 1% of the
interest on the money lent, said, this grandchild is just like yourself.
"Then, what do you think?" asked he, I don't say in appearance it is
like you but in refusing to pay back the amount taken. Similarly
Mars in Gemini does bring out such partner. Further a swindler.

Cancer : Short, dusky complexion, less of hair, crooked body
unreliable unfortunate, unhealthy practices, henchman, menial,
incapable of doing honourable work.
=== PAGE 0094 ===
90

Leo:—Tall, well-built, oval face, dark complexion, stout hands
and legs, yet very brisk and active, fond of firing, shooting sports,
riding, quarrelsome, likes to be in Police or military, dresses nicely.

Virgo:- Moderate height, well-built body, thick nose, dark
complexion, hasty, impulsive, proud, passionate, vindictive
retaliates, ruthless, malevolent.

Libra:—Tall, beautiful, oval face, red complexion, active,
alert, hopeful and cheerful, self-boasting, lofty, haughty, vain,
glorious, dresses well, attached to other sex.

Scorpio :-Stout, bulky, dark complexion, curling hair, broad
face, rash, not sociable, vindictive, revengeful, fond of disputes and
quarrel, proud, haughty, very intelligent.

Sagittarius: -Tall, well-proportioned body, red complexion,
oval face, piercing eyes, hopeful, jovial, jubilant, cheerful, quick,
speedy, bold talkative.

Capricorn :—Short, lean, thin face, dark complexion, witty,
humourous, intelligent, lucky, pushy and successful.

Aquarius: -Well built body, good complexion, fair
and buoyant, a good debater, argues, fortune average only.

Pisces;- Below average height, dark complexion, not beautiful,
dirty look, dull, idiot, self-indulgent, idle, careless, unfortunate.

Such a person can act as follows : Once a lady returned to
her place after 5 years interval. Her classmate was standing
outside having a baby on her hand. The visitor said, Hello the
child is just like your husband. This lady hurriedly said, "Shut up;
This child is the son of my lady friend, living in the next door". If
you say that it appears like my husband, what does it mean? Once
an old gentleman took his son (an idiot) to a house where he met
his friend and consoled him saying that the mother who passed
away was so kind to all and she was a mother to all. She could
have lived for some more years. The idiotic son was observing.
Some months passed. His father went on tour. The old man was
absent. At that time in the adjoining house a young lady passed
=== PAGE 0095 ===
91

away. This idiot thought that he should go and enquire and console
the friend. Do you know what he told f/ am really very sorry, What to
do.? Your wife was not only your wife. She was very kind, very good.
She was the wife of all. She could have lived for some more years.
What to do__ Such an idiot will be the partner if the sub-lord of the 7th
cusp at the time of judgment is Mars and it was occupying PISCES.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 7tth CUSP IS MERCURY AND
IF IT IS DEPOSITED IN OR IF THE LORD OF THE
CONSTELLATION IS MERCURY IN WHICH THE SUBLORD
OF 7ISIN:

Aries: -Moderate in height aad stature, thin body, face not
round but oval, hair not black but brown, complexion not fair but
dull, very quick in thinking and also while speaking, expressive,
liberal, inventive, impulsive, clever, studious, writer, not
methodical, nor orderly.

Taurus - Stout body, strong, good health, black complexion.
Short and thick hair, a little lazy, happy disposition, fond of opposite
sex, recreation, artist, determined, perseverance, diplomatic, likes
and dislikes, efforts to accumulate wealth.

Gemini: -Tall, well built, brown hair, complexion good,
intelligent, orator, clever, lawyer or agent, inventive, resourceful,
generous, good humored, changeful, speculative, studious,
versatile.

Cancer : — Short, stout, complexion not good, eyes small,
nose sharp, hair dark, ever variable, never steady, little lazy,
tactful, faithful much of retentive power, reasonable, opinion,
sociable, disposition, cares for pleasure, parties picnics.

Leo:—Robust health, weak body, good stature, dark
complexion, brown hair, round face, broad eyes, persistent quick
tempered. kind hearted, ambitious, intuition, organising capacity,
music, drama, arts, do not take such drugs which would affect
the heart.

Virgo :—Tall, lean, brown hair, complexion not attractive,
very intelligent, cautious, practical, prudent, intuitive, scholar
=== PAGE 0096 ===
92

good writer, well informed and wide awake worker, investigation
in occult.

Libra: Tall, strong but thin brown hair, moderate
complexion, broad outlook, dispassionate. For any
matter computes and contrasts, good judge, artist, invention,
good in mathematics, social life.

Scorpio: Short, not good to look at, broad shoulder, dark
complexion, brown hair, stubborn, obstinate, positive, reckless,
friends are troublesome, so also relatives, fond of opposite sex,
ever for pleasure, disappointments, critical, suspicious, develops
mesmerism.

Sagittarius: Tall, well built, large thick bones, face oval,
dark complexion, long nose, sincere, just, independent,
rebellious, prophetic mind, active mentally, changeable,
enjoying nature, authoritative.

Capricorn: Thin, not well built, face also thin, dark complexion,
hair brown and thin, irritable, dissatisfied, disappointed,
discontented, unfortunate, suspicious nature, painstaking, studious,
perseverance, science, occult, contemplative.

Aquarius : Moderate stature, good health, attractive appearance,
dark hair, fair, original thoughts, penetrative, comprehensive,
humanitarian, can concentrate, fond of occult subjects and research,
capable for discovery, ever reading, expounders of theories.

Pisces: Short, stout, pale, hair brownish, hair throughout
the body, intuitive, understands matters quickly, versatile, good
memory, psychic qualities , recreation, boating, analytical mind,
dexterous, finds pleasure in nursing

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE SEVENTH CUSP IS
JUPITER AND IF IT IS DEPOSITED IN OR IF THE LORD
OF THE CONSTELLATION IS JUPITER IN WHICH THE
SUB LORD OF SEVEN IS IN:

Aries: Not plumpy but stature is middle, expressive eyes,
high nose, pimples in the face, progressive, generous, ardent
philosophical, good, relationship, social, noble, polite,
studious, fond of traveling- sports- races and fortunate.
=== PAGE 0097 ===
93

Taurus: Moderate height, stout, good health, affectionate
reserved, steady, cannot be influenced, rarely travels, religious,
gains through opposite sex. receives gift, legacy, gains by
investment, speculation, early marriage, dutiful partner.

Gemini: Well-built, little stout, good complexion, dark
hair, penetrating eyes, sympathetic benevolent, friendly, trust-
worthy, travels, broad-outlook, restless, studious, some
difficulty in wedding, can discover, follow novel methods

Cancer: Stout, short, pale and anaemic, complexion not
good, face not round, hair not black, plumpy, disproportionate,
charitable, enterprising, sympathetic, popular, intuitive,
imaginative, artist, patriot, interest in the occult sciences,
loves home and also travels.

Leo: Strong, well-built, tall, round face, curling dark hair, big
eyes, beautiful, broad-outlook, noble, prudent, loyal, generous,
prestige, intuitive, diplomatic, permanency, fixed deposit, sports.

Virgo: Good height, well-built, beautiful, black hair, above
average in height, fair complexion, intelligent, cautious,
prudent, philosophy, scientific, analytical, wise, honest, chooses
friends, popular, deals in speculation

Libra: Good growth, robust health, handsome, tall, good
complexion, oval face, dark hair, pimples or rash in the face,
moderate, eamest, obliging, imaginative, peaceful, charitable
fond of travel, artist, gains through the opposite sex, happy
marriage, good children.

Scorpio: Good health, well-built, beautiful, strong will, deep
emotions, ambitious, perseverance, self confidence, analytical,
psychic, research minded, permanency, professional _ secret,
litigation, arbitration

Sagittarius: Tall and upright, stout, good stature, oval
face brown hair, grows beard, becomes bald, courteous, generous,
tolerant, loyal, merciful, humanitarian, successful, sports, horse-
race, gains.

Capricorn: Thin, below average, head also little small,
little beard, dark brown thin hair, constructive, capable,
=== PAGE 0098 ===
94

creative, ambitious, powerful, economical, frugal, successful,
public life, deals in foreign affairs, long journeys, orthodox.

Aquarius: Below average, tall, good health, brown hair,
deep set eyes, good humored, sympathetic, hates quarrels,
prophetic, good for astrology, spiritual life, independent views,
gains through, profession, psychic experiences, friends in foreign.

Pisces: below average height, plumpy, stout, brown hair,
pleasure in good company, strong will, emotional, imaginative,
intuitive, dreams and vision . studious simple, unassuming,
fond of nature, animals, aquatics, takes interest in
sanatorium, asylum etc.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 7th CUSP IS YENUS AND IF
IT IS DEPOSITED IN OR IF THE LORD OF THE
CONSTELLATION IS VENUS IN WHICH THE SUBLORD
OF 7 IS IN:

Aries; Average height, thin body, thin hair, good appearance,
scar in face, may be poxed face, artist, fond of music, sculpture,
internal recreation, travels, affectionate,fond of love, attracted to
opposite sex, popular.

Taurus: Very good health, attractive face, proportionate
body, little stout, emotional, affectionate, faithful, careful,
precise determined, saves money, enjoys life.

Gemini: Middle stature, good in appearance, fair complexion,
dark hair, good humored, traverse, plurality of interests, several
occupations, good writer, speaker, musician, intuitive, original
inventive, sociable, more than one love affair, unsteady.

Cancer: Short person, stout, round face at the same time
sickly. thin hair, idle, loves home attracted by family, fond of
mother, kind heart, imaginative, several love affairs, secret
activities marriage not very fortunate, psychic powers, can
mesmerise, gains by permanent positions.

Leo: Tall, well built, clear eyes, round face, fair skin,
syrnpathetic, kind hearted, charitable, sincere, attractive,
social good, in music or acting or any art, gains by speculation,
shares stock exchange, etc.
=== PAGE 0099 ===
95

Virgo: Tall, well built, oval face, dark hair, intelligent,
sympathetic, not fully satisfied in love affairs, secret attachment
even with employees or employers, gains through medicine,
gardening, nursery and speculation.

Libra: Erect, Straight, tall, beautiful person, well built, oval
face pleasing manners, ever smiling, brown hair, very long hair,
kind sympathetic, affectionate, good companion inseparable
temperament, pleasant partner, artist, social broad outlook.

Scorpio: Short, stout, robust, broad face, black
complexion, black hair, extravagant, lavish, impulsive, gains by
gift or partnership or dowry, very passionate, emotional,
troubles through opposite sex, disappointment, survives partner.

Sagittarius: Tall, well built, good complexion, fair long face,
brown hair, refined nature, light hearted, impressionable,
imaginative, intuitive, fond of journey, beauty, nature's romance,
outdoor games, gains through many source, horse-racing, shipping,
boating, takes friends of opposite sex etc.

Capricorn: Not well built, moderate height, pale figure,
thin, looks sickly, dark hair, trust worthy, responsible,
authoritative. business-like, banking, invests, deals in
speculative shares, social life, ambitious, delayed marriage,
loss due to treachery in business.

Aquarius: Beautiful, robust health, well built fair
complexion, big body, sympathetic, humanitarian, social,
always fondof romance, sudden expenses in love, gains
through friends, most of the hopes fulfilled.

Pisces: Moderate height, stout, muscular, round face, very
fair, charitable, can be influenced, sympathetic, compassionate,
emotional, inspirational, fond of painting, music, society.

IF THE SUB LORD OF THE SEVENTH CUSP IS SATURN
AND IF IT IS DEPOSITED IN OR IF THE LORD OF THE
CONSTELLATION IS SATURN IN WHICH THE SUB LORD OF
SEVEN IS IN:

Aries: Black complexion, bony person, thin build, dull face, less
of hair, self boasting, determined very ambitious, good analytical
brain, obstacles and troubles.
=== PAGE 0100 ===
96

Taurus: Ugly appearance, stout, dark hair, profuse
growth, fat, steady in mind, loses temper quickly. resentful,
cannot be satisfied, very economical, reserved, fond of
horticulture, poultry, enjoys nature, loss through close
relative, domestic life not very fortunate.

Gemini: Tall, black, face not round, hair also black, intelligent,
concentrates, can meditate, fond of science, mathematics, Statistics.
Literature, trouble through cousins, litigations, false complaints, being
black-mailed, danger for reputation.

Cancer: Thin, not tall, weak health, sickly appearance, hair dark,
deep set eyes, dissatisfaction, ever changes house. always
changeable, depressed, no contentment at all, psychic powers,
economical at home, most industrious.

Leo: Tall, good health, broad face, big shoulders, dark hair,
sunken eyes, generous, short beard, stubborn, God-fearing, spiritual
uplift, trouble through servants, meets with accidents, pains-taking,
over-works, feels exhausted in love affairs, not happy.

Virgo: Tall, thin-build, black hair, long forehead, cautious,
frugal intuitive, reserved, much worried, not faithful, depressed good
for spiritual life, unfortunate in domestic affairs, disharmony
obstacles, labour problems.

Libra: Tall, long face, dark hair, long nose, broad forehead,
commands respect, scientific minded, inimical with opposite sex,
disappointment in love affairs, separation, heavy hearted, disgrace,
delayed marriage, dejected.

Scorpio : Moderate height, stout, big shoulder;, dark hair,
violent type, very passionate, self determined, jealous, dis-
appointment in love affairs or secret activities, not happy with
domestic life, drunkard, bad habits.

Sagittarius: Huge body, moderate complexion, obliging, helpful,
fearless, humanitarian, occult science, philosophy, intuitive, detached
nature, many obstacles, more than one occupation, should take care
of nervous weakness, do not mix with frauds and cheats.
=== PAGE 0101 ===
97

Capricorn; Lean, bony, black hair, average height, sunken
cheek and eyes, hunch-back, always thinking, serious, cautious,
reasonable reserved, peevish, attachment with inferior friends, not
reliable, unhappy marriage, dissatisfied, needs recreation.

Aquarius: Tall, big head and sunken eyes, brown, hair
thoughtful, reserved, serious, intellectual, deep thinker, sociable,
gains determined, faithful romantic life.

Pisces : Moderate height, average complexion neither fair nor
dirty, big head, protruding eyes, teeth not well arranged, unfaithful,
friends, loss, deception, being black mailed, danger to reputation,
many disappointments, secret activities, unfortunate, calamities,
worry due to romance, feels tired, exhausted easily, cannot
concentrate, psychic conditions affect the native, persistent effort,
deep intuition.

If the sublord of the 7th cusp is either Rahu or Kethu and if
it is deposited in, or if the lord of the constellation is Rahu or
Kethu in which the sublord of 7 is, the results should be referred
to that planet with which Rahu or Kethu is conjoined ; if no
planet is conjoined with Rahu or Kethu, then read the result of
the planet which aspects Rahu or Kethu; if no planet is
conjoined with and no planet aspects then take the lord of the
star in which Rahu or Kethu was.

HEIGHT OF MY HUSBAND

The question, though happens to be relevant, especially when
the girls are either short or very tall, yet actually there is no science
to indicate the height of the partner.

In the year 1939, 1 was put a series of questions by the
daughter of my boss. I had to describe the bridegroom, whom she
would marry and also the time of marriage, which was five years
after the date of consultation.

I told, that girl would marry on a particular day. I added that
the person would be serving in Defense Department ; his hip would
be defective ; he was not a business-man ; he was not already
closely related ; he comes from a stranger's family, the marriage
would be an arranged one and the height of the husband would be
around 5 feet 8 inches.
=== PAGE 0102 ===
98

Actually tbe marriage took place on the date of my
prediction and it was celebrated at Bombay. A week later she
and her husband came to the Tennis Court in King Institute,
Guindy where I was working. I congratulated her. She told,
"Sir, you were correct in all details. My husband is in
Military. While he was in the foreign a bullet passed through
the hip and there is the defect. He is not related to us
before marriage time. Now he is my husband. Date of
marriage came correct, But you failed in only one."

"What is it Madam" ? J asked:

"You said that he would be around 5 feet, 8 inches in height.
Now, look at my husband. He is 6 feet."

Before she could finish her narration, I immediately convinced
"Madam, on the day I gave the prediction he was 5 feet 8 inches. in
these 5 years he has grown up to 6". Simply we laughed.

But yet, within me | thought, "Why did I answer this question
at all ? When we have no rule I would have plainly told madam,
there is no rules ; no science ; no method to find out the height."

Therefore there is no method by which it is possible to give the
height. Now a few of my students collect the horoscopes of both the
husband and wife, note down their heights and also the other marks
in the body, sores in the body etc. It will take another 6 months at
least for us to come to a decision and give out the rule in my
magazine, "ASTROLOGY & ATHRISHTA".

WILL I MARRY A CAREER GIRL ?

One will marry a career girl if the sublord of the 4th Cusp
is the Significator of 8 or 12 or 4.

In this case the Sublord is Mars, who is lord of 8 and it is in the
Constellation of Mercury, lord of 4, sub of Saturn, lord of 12 in 12th
Bhava. It means when you take the Sublord of 4th Cusp, and judge,
it will be the Significator of 2, 6, or 10th house counted from the 7th
house. Then the girl will serve or work or do business.

Husband and wife may both be teachers, doctors, lawyers
and shareholders of business.
=== PAGE 0103 ===
99

1, Example
this native has married the girl, who is working as a Captain.

Mars 29-43 K 8-08
Lag, 26-31 etu 8-
Fortune-25-17 Ura 17-36 TIT 26-20 Tv 19-20
Sat 11-43 TI 0-20
Ven- 24-20
Sun 18-00
Moo. 16-49 V 14-20
XII 15-70 23 — 1938
Ket. 12-30 8-55 AM.
31-19 N
Jup. 23-50 75-18 E VI 15-20
XI 14-20 Nep 27-08
XI 26-20
X 9-20 Rahu 8-8 VII 26-31
VIII 0-20

This is an important question for modem times and the
Students can collect hundreds of horoscopes and verify.

2nd Example:

Jupiter
Mercury Mars
Sun Saturn
Ketu
Venus Born on 8-4-1942
at 4-31 A.M. at
Jullunder
Wife also a
Medical
Practitioner Rahu

Moon

=== PAGE 0104 ===
100
CHASTE WIFE

If the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is neither Mars nor Venus nor
Saturn, and if the sub-lord of 7 is not deposited in constellation of
Mars or Venus or Saturn, occupying one of the signs belonging to
Mars or Venus or Saturn, then the girl will be chaste.

Once a friend of mine showed a chart and said that it belongs to
his younger brother's wife. He asked me, "What do you think of this
girl." I told him, neither the 7th cusp nor Mars, Venus and Saturn are
connected with either her lagna or the 7th and also these three
planets have no connection whatsoever with one another; She must
be chaste.

He said, "Sir it is not for that I showed the chart. I want to know
something else.~

IL asked him "What is that" ?

He narrated that there is a defect in her generative system and
asked me whether it could be set right. I told him that in her 12th
cusp there is Neptune which was in Leo Nirayana | degree. I told
him defect is indicated by the 12 house, disease by 6th and danger by
the 8th. As the native has Ketu star Saturn Sub she lacks Conjugal
Bliss. But as long as her Ascendant is in the constellation of lord of
11 aspected by Jupiter, she will be really chaste and the defect in her
generative system would never be cured. A few years passed. The
girl was taken to an expert in Women and Children Hospital. The
Doctor reported after a thorough examination that Lord Brahma has
forgotten to keep the generative system at all excepting that
provision was made to pass only urine.

MARRIAGE (WESTERN)

Marriage is tbe permanent tie of friendship. There can be no
real friendship without confidence. One should make a correct
choice though "Hanging and wiving go by destiny." God is
=== PAGE 0105 ===
101

helpful to one who won't marry till a perfect partner is found ; if
one finds a suitable partner then God helps still more.

One may marry late in one's life for economic reasons. One may
feel that early marriages are permanent moralities and late marriage
are temptations to wickedness. Always a happy marriage is a new
beginning of life, a new starting point for happiness and _ steadiness.
Romance will cease when the marriage is done and their history will
start from then. Hence one should conveniently and leisurely
observe and consider before getting married. But what is the use of
repenting at leisure by marrying in haste. Johnson says "When we
see the avaricious and crafty taking companions to their tables and
their beds without any inquiry but after farms and money ; or the
giddy and thoughtless uniting themselves for life to those whom they
have only seen by the light of tapers ; when parents make articles for
children without inquiring after their consent; when some marry for
heirs to disappoint their brothers ; and others throw themselves into
the arms of those whom they do not love, because they have found
themselves rejected where they were more solicitous to please; when
some marry because their servants cheat them : some because they
squander their own money ; some because their houses are pestered
with company ; some because they will live like other people; some
because they are sick of themselves, we are not so much inclined to
wonder that marriage is sometimes unhappy, as that it appears so
little loaded with calamity ; and cannot but conclude that society has
something in itself eminently agreeable to human nature, when we
find its pleasures so great, that even the ill-choice of a companion
can hardly over-balance them, those therefore, that rail against
matrimony should be informed that they are neither to wonder or
repent / languish that a contract begun on such principles has ended
in disappointment."

But marriage, with such a partner after ascertaining whether
they can have mutual love among themselves, is the crown of all our
bliss. Hence one has to find out astrologically the suitable partner to
lead a happy and harmonious wedded life.

If both the gent's and the bride's charts are positive then
both will have many virtues in common : as also the vices,
=== PAGE 0106 ===
102

Because of the latter, there must be clash, each prepared to fight to
the finish. Both will be argumentative and adamant. It is not
advisable to match such a couple.

If both are negative, both will suffer in silence which is very
harmful both to their mental and physical health. It will lead to the
development of very unfortunate circumstances.

If the male is positive and the female negative the result will be
the best. The energy of the male and the gentleness of the female
will be ideal to please the partner. Even if the financial position of
the family may not be satisfactory, yet they will have a good sexual
life without suffering from ill-health and emotional debilitations.
Good.

Let us see how the positive female and negative male will be;
the female will be dynamically strong. It is alright, if one has enough
money, robust health and good position. Even then the weakness of
the male will be accentuated to a good extent. Finally the female will
appear to treat the husband with contempt or to ignore him by
curling up her lips. She will find fault with tbe husband, scold
persistently and annoy him. She will be a shrew, being shrewd

Therefore it is absolutely necessary to examine the horoscopes
of both the male and female astrologically which reveals the
personalities, health, character and temperament of both. After
marriage will they complement each other understanding their true
desire and nature so that the greatest possible harmony can be
established to lead a good life, it it to be judged before marriage.
Astrology assists in this.

Here is the horoscope of a woman, whom I know very well
Born at 7-34 AM. on tuesday 18-4-1911 at 13-47N, and 79-12E.

Mercury Dasa balance 7 years 8 months 2 days. This lady was
bringing up her brother«sson Gopu, a young boy of 10 years in 1939
and she with her own three children and husband (his name also
Gopu took a house on rent in 1939 and was living in that house from
1939. It was just opposite to that of mine.
=== PAGE 0107 ===
103

Merc 3-28
Sun 4-24
XII 25-9 Sat 15-33 56-9 Ill 22-9
Rahu 18-14
Asc. 28-49
XI 21-9
Mars IV 20-09
3-33
X 20-09 V 21-09
VII 26-9 Jup. 18-47
IX 22-09 Moon Ket 18-14 IV 25-9
23-59
VII 28-49

Her husband was terribly afraid of her, as she used to shout at
him, for nothing. This, I was observing, for a few weeks. One day, I
advised him to spend bis time in my house, whenever he felt that
she would lose her temper. He took the advice seriously and used to
be with me.

Whenever he was with me, she, standing at the threshold of
her house, holding her nephew Gopu in one hand used to shout and
call her husband. "Gopu, where have you gone ? Come on." this
person, in haste, without even mentioning that he was going home
would run to his house. In a few days, I understood that sbe used to
call her husband by name in an authoritative tone. On the days when
there was delay, in getting down the stair case and rush to his house,
she would say "Why so much time ? Come on, come on. Lathi is
ready. I will give a blow on the Patella-knee cap. Then you will not
leave the house." This person used to beg her not to shout and
appeal to her, that his prestige is at stake and that the moment he
heard her voice, he had at once rushed to his place. She would say
"Don't argue. Get in ! She allowed him to visit only my house, since
frequently they used to borrow money and also provisions for their
use.) Thus she was a terror to him.
=== PAGE 0108 ===
104

One day, while taking food, he in a very low tone told her, ‘‘salt
is more in the Soup and it is saltish." Do you know what she did ?
"Oh ! for your cheek, 1 do at least this much. See, whether it is
saltish or what !" So saying, she took the boiling soup in a cup and
poured on his head.

He rushed to the water tub and dipped his head in the tub. He
could not go to office. He applied for leave. in a week the hair in that
area fell down and suddenly his head gave the appearance of the
"Fathers." Thus she used to be extreme, positive, vehement, violent,
ferocious, uproarious and what not!

One day, when she had been to the market, stealthily the
unlucky man showed his chart. I asked him even before touching the
chart, "How is it that you have 4 children and she is now on the
family way though you both are fighting like this, during day time,
daily". “What to do. Sir, all her Rajyam, I have to obey her in all
matters." "All right! your chart shows that shortly, you can enjoy
peace of mind for some months. She would go to her parent's place".

"Sir she never wants to go. Even during delivery time, she
insists on her stay here. What sin I had committed, I do not know."

Don't worry. She must go. The period is like that. Let
us wait and see."

"How can it Sir," "Wait. God alone knows the cause."

Luckily for him. in 1942, evacuation came in Madras She told
"If you have office, you stay here, you go to Hell. But I can't stay
during blackout. I should go." She left in 2 days with all her
children. Her husband Gopu had a great relief. One year passed. She
returned after delivering the 5th child, consider the fate of this
person. Why is her chart considered to be positive, needs judgment.
Lagna falls in the sub of Mars (No doubt Mars is also lord of the
lagna sign. One should not forget that there are very modest types
born in Mesha, when the lagna sub-lord is Moon or Venus. Twins
are born in the same sign, as lagna. One is militant and the other
polite, calm and modest. Such a difference can be judged only from
the sub-lord. Moon is in Scorpio (to sting like Scorpion) in Jyeshta
=== PAGE 0109 ===
105

ruled by Mercury (talkative). Lord of lagna and Moon sign is Mars.
It is in its own star Dhanishta. Venus in Lagna Bhava receives
aspect from Mars. Hence she was an extreme militant type.

He did not consult any honest astrologer. So this fate. Do you
want such a wife. Not at all; so consult an honest astrologer, the
master of astrology. He will select you a girl of with good qualities.

MARRIAGE DENIAL

GRAPES ARE SOUR
The following is the horoscope of a person who has now
once for all decided not to marry anybody as all the proposals

which he had from 1950 to 1970 failed after giving hopes after
hopes.

Mars 27-11 V-2-2 VI 0-2
Rahu 16-18 Merc.
Moon 15-11 Jupiter Ven 23-19 19-6
2 8-55 VII 25-56 VII 25-15
vo Sun 28-31

IX 27-2
Nirayana Chart
III 27-02
XII 0-2
Ketu 16-18
II 23-13 XI 2-2 X 0-2

Sat. 22-40 (R)
Asc. 25-56

Every time entertaining hopes and every time getting disap-
pointed : Even though the native is having robust health, good
complexion, yet there is no companion for him to jointly have the
pleasure, to share the income etc. According to Krishnamurti
Padhdhati a person is denied of marriage when the 7th Cusp sub lord
is deposited in tbe constellation of the significators of 4, 6 and 10
because the houses 2, 7 and 11 show the marriage, and
=== PAGE 0110 ===
106

hence the 12th house to these houses indicates denial of the
marriage. Again Sth house shows either love affair or children. 4th
house indicates failure in love affairs and also denial of children or
separation from them. In this horoscope the 7th Cusp fall at 25
degrees, 56 minutes. Therefore, it is in Venus sign, Mars star and
Rahu sub. Rahu is deposited in the 6th house. It is in the
constellation of Moon in the 4th house. Rahu occupying Venus sign
and conjoined with it shows that 6th house result is stronger than 7.
Further Rahu is in the sub of Saturn in the 12th house.

Venus, lord of 7 is in the sub of Sun who is lord of 10 and who
is deposited in the constellation of Mars and sub of Saturn ; Mars is
in 4, Saturn is in 12. All these rules show that he is not lucky to get
married.

Actually chances will be nil for him; he will ever miss to kiss a
miss. If Rahu would have been in Jupiter, sub, he would have been
married and also loved a few more. Therefore, the students must
note that it is the sub lord which is mainly responsible to give clear
idea, and correct picture. One need not commit to memory many a
sloka. The simple rule is, note the sublord of the 7th Cusp; if the sub
lord is connected with 4, 6, 10th houses, one will be denied of
marriage. As you read my Magazine "ASTROLOGY &
ATHRISHTA" you will be having similar cases and the horoscopes
will be published then and there.

WILL THE WEDDING BELL RING?

It was a Saturday. I was just scanning through the leaves of an
interesting astrological book on the effects of planetary periods. A
friend who bad recently retired from high position in Government
service peeped in. He was worried and was greatly agitated at the
prospect of his daughter's marriage having been abnormally delayed.
He said depressingly, "I have been trying, as you know, to fix up my
daughter's marriage for a long time, but without any avail. I do not
know whether she will get married at all. Can yon tell me frankly
whether marriage Is promised at all in her case and if so when?"

"Have you her chart with you?,
=== PAGE 0111 ===
107

"Yes, I have. It was prepared by an enthusiastic admirer of
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI—he attended your lectures
some time back."

“Oh! The horoscope has been correctly charted and agrees with
the ruling planets at the moment. Please leave it with me. I shall
work out in detail and let you know what I feel about the prospect of
your daughter's marriage and when it will happen."

"All right, but I hope you will be able to give me your
advice without much delay;"

"I would not like to delay. Anyway please let me have
some time,” I said.

The matter rested at that. For quite some time I could not
take up his horoscope for examination. Of course, I am myself now
running the sub-period of Sani and the chart was handed over to me
on a Saturday. At long last, I wanted to sit late at one night and
complete my study of the chart. So I took it up on Wednesday the
22nd October, 1969 at 10-25 p.m. (IST) sharp in New Delhi.

The horoscope of the girl is drawn below. She was bom
at 19-05 hours on 15-06-1939.

Sani 5-29
Chandra Surya 0-38
PV 14-38-42 Ket. 13-09 4-18 Vil
V 15-38-42 Sukra 7 54 8-10-52
Guru VI Bndha
12-49 Uranus
26-59 12-38-42 10-17
I VI
11-38-42 8-38-42
RASI
Ix
Mars 11-38-42
W124 Neptunc
IT 8-38-42 27-41
XI xI
Lagna 12-38-42 15-38-42 xX
8* 10' 52' Fortuna Rahu 14-38-32
11-47 13-09

Balance of Surya Maha Dasa at the time of her birth was 2
years, 6 months and 23 days.
=== PAGE 0112 ===
106

The dasa of Surya ended on 8-1-1942: Chandra Dasa
operated between 8-1-1942 and 8-1-1952; Kuja Dasa between
8-1-1952 and 8-1-1959 ; Rahu Dasa commenced on 8-1-1969 and
will run up to 8-1-1977. In Rahu's Dasa, Kethu Bhukti commenced
on 8-7-1959 and it will go up to 26-7-1970. The different anthra
periods in Kethu Bhukti in Rahu Dasa are as follows:—

Dasa Bhukti Anthra From To

Rahu Kethu Kethu 8-7-1969  30-7-1969
Sukra 30- 7-1969 3-10-1969
Surya 3-10-1969 22-10-1969
Chandra 22-10-1969 23-11-1969
Kuja 23-11-1969 15-12-1969
Rahu 15-12-1969  12-2-1970
Guru 12-2-1970 2-4-1970

Sani 2-4-1970 2-6-1970
Budha 2-6-1970  26-7-1970
Rahu Sukra etc. 26-77-1970 26-7-1973

Is Marriage promised? Why is there Abnormal Delay ?

First of all, it should be found out whether the chart shows the
possibility of marriage at all. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati,
the planet ruling the sub-division of the constellation on the cusp of
the 7th house is tbhe guide. If the sub-lord happens to be a
significator of the houses governing marital affairs, marriage will
certainly take place. The 7th cusp falls in Mithuna in Arudhra star
owned by Rahu in Rahu's sub. What does Rahu denote ? Rahu is
posited in Thula very near the 11th cusp; it is in its own constellation
Swathi and in the sub of Budha who not only rules the kalathra
sthana (7th house) but also occupies it. The nodes have no signs
allotted to them ; they are chaya grahas (shadowy planets) and
reflect the results of the planets with which they are in conjunction
or aspect. When not so conjoined or aspected, they (the nodes) offer
the effects of the planet ruling the sign they are in. In the present
case, Rahu is not conjoined with any planet but it is aspected by Sani
A HouhtyyaeRatobechorlyotig Thula, all alone, displaces its lord,
Sukra. Sukra is also the 11 th
=== PAGE 0113 ===
107

house lord. Rahu in the sign owned by lord of 11, in its own star and
sub of Budha who owns and occupies the 7th house, reinforced by
the aspect of lord of 2 is a very strong significator of the affairs
concerning marriage. Where, then, is the uncertainty about the
possibility of marital happiness to this girl? Of course, the delay is
there it is understandable. Why? Delay, dejection, disappointment,
denial, etc. are caused by Sani, and strongly so if Sani occupies the
11h house where from it will aspect the 7th, 11th and 2nd houses by
its third, seventh and tenth aspects respectively. Whenever Sani
happens to be a significator of a particular matter, it will not deny
but will cause delay. If it is connected with houses 2, 7 and 11 by
occupying the house or owning it or situated in the constellation of
the planet posited in any of these houses it will cause delay at every
time-in fixation of marriage, celebration of marriage, etc. It will not
deny marital happiness. But if Sani has no connection with houses 2,
and 11 but only throws its aspect, this portends denial and even
disappointment.

Generally, all those in whose chart Sani is placed in the 5th
house will have their marriage, delayed and delayed till the very
end.

Points to be Considered

What next? Which are the planets which are connected with
marriage and married life? Sukra is considered to be the chief
governor of the affairs concerning marriage. It should be reckoned
more especially if it happens to be a significator of the houses to be
judged in this respect. Houses 2, 7 and 11 have to be perused.

In traditional Hindu astrology only the 7th house and the
planets ruling and occupying it are taken into account. This is very
inadequate. Krishnamurti Padhdhati goes further and tells us that
apart from the 7th house which is kalathrasthana the 2nd house and
the 11th house should also be examined. The second house denotes
"kutumba" family, all those members closely allied to the native by
birth or by connection. If the 4th house represents mother, the Sth
the children born to him, the 7th his wife or husband, the ninth his
father and the 11th
=== PAGE 0114 ===
110

the elder brother or sister, the 2nd represents the family in general
without reference to any particular relation. Further, the 2nd bouse
also governs acquisition and acquisition to the family by marriage is
thus denoted by this house. The eleventh house stands for pleasure
and permanent or lasting friendship. The person who, by the bond of
marriage, enters into legal partnership with you has to partake in
your pain and pleasure. Who else can be a lasting friend than your
life partner? Therefore, the houses to be referred are 2, 7 and 11.

How to arrive at the significators ?

The respective strength of the significators of a house,
according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, is to be ascertained in the
following manner:—

(1) Planet in the constellation of the occupant of a bhava
(This is the strongest. Next);
(2) Occupant of the bhava ;

(3) Planet posited in tbe constellation ruled by tbe lord of
the bhava;

(4) Planet owning the bhava ;

and
(5) Planet or planets conjoined with or aspecting the above
significators and also the house in question.

Let us judge houses 2, 7 and 11 which are connected :

House 2 House 7 House 11
(A) Planet Kuja Budha Rahu
occupying
(B) Planet in Surya nnn Budha
constellation Rahu
owned by ‘A’
(C) Planet owning Sani Budha Sukra
(D) Planet in Guru nnn min
constellation

ruled by 'C'
=== PAGE 0115 ===
111

note; Rahu acts as Sukra«s agent by its placement in Thula, alt alone.
Further, Rahu is also aspected by lord of 2, Sani ; Rahu and
Budha are in Rahu's constellation.
Kethu is conjoined with Sani (lord of 2) and aspected by
Kuja from the 2nd bhava. Kethu is also in Kuja's own sign,
Mesha. Kethu is thus a substitute for Sani and Mars.
Further Kethu is also in Budha«s sub. Thus it is very
powerful.

The 2nd, 11th and 7th houses are aspected by Sani ;
no other planet aspects any of these houses.

Thus Rahu, Budha, Kethu, Surya, Kuja, Guru, Sani and Sukra
are the significators. The dasa, bhukti and anthra periods according
to Vimshottari Dasa system and the planets ruling the moment at
which the matter is judged will help eliminate the planets which are
not so strong. The native is running Rahu Dasa, Kethu Bhukti and
these two planets are really very strong significators.

Ruling Planets: Although the father of the girl had been
pressing me for a long time, this horoscope was taken up for
consideration only on Wednesday 22nd October, 1969. The day is
ruled by Budha ; the rasi in which Chandra was transiting was
Meena owned by Guru; the constellation where, Chandra transited
was Poorvabhadra- the fag end of it. So Chandra was in Guru's Star
and in Rahu's sub. The time was unusual, 10-25 p.m. (IST) when
Mithuna was rising. It was a sheer coincidence that the constellation
and the sub on the cusp of the lagna where ruled by Rahu. The 7th
cusp fell in Guru«s sign Dhanus, Ketu's star Moola and in that the
sub-portion ruled by Rahu. I had no hesitation, therefore, that Rahu
and Kethu in their conjoint period must cause the fixation and
celebration of marriage. Budha being in Rahu's star and sub of Guru
in the natal horoscope (Rahu and Guru conjointly ruled the degree
occupied by tbe Moon at the time of judgment). I pitched upon the
anthra of Budha for fructification of the event. Budha Anthra runs
between 2-6-1970 and 26-7-1970. Kethu, though strong, is
conjoined with Sani which aspects all the three houses connected
with marriage and should therefore delay till the sub-period of Sani
(anthra of Sani) is
=== PAGE 0116 ===
112

over, Budha being a very quick planet, must give its results
immediately after its anthra period commences.

"When do you think it will fructify?"

As often advised by Prof. Krishnamurti, the transits of the
planets should also be taken into consideration so that it is possible
to time an event accurately."

"You mean the gochara effects read with reference to the
Chandra Rasi at birth ?"

“‘No. In Hindu traditional astrology, the transits (gochara
or grahachara) are understood and applied in a very, very
restricted way. No elaborate calculations are made. The birth
position of the Moon by sign is token as the starting point to
which the transiting positions of the various planets by sign in
the Zodiac are related and the results read. They do not see
whether the Moon or the other planets are in the beginning,
middle or end of the signs occupied by them. if Chandra at birth
is in Simha in the 29th degree and tbe transiting planet is also
in Simha in 2nd degree, they take these two planets to be in
conjunction (by transit) without measuring the actual
longitudinal distance between them whether they are
really in conjunction. If the same transiting planet is in 2nd
degree of Kanya, according to the traditional method it is
considered tobe in 2nd from the Moon, though in this case
they are only 3 degrees apart longitudinally and are thus in
close conjunction. On this erroneous basis, when Jupiter is in
2, 3, 7, 9 or 11 counted from the Chandra rasi at birth,
there is "Guru bala" according to tradition promising
fulfilment of marriage. Is this true? Are there not cases of
people getting married when there is no Gurubala and persons
being denied marriage even when Gurubala is present ? The
traditional method of studying the results of transits simply
on the basis of sign position of the planets with reference only
to the Chandra rasi at birth and without taking the actual
longitudinal distances between them is therefore wholly unreliable.
It is necessary to take every one of the transiting planets and relate
them to their own birth positions and to the radical positions of all
the other planets and also to the cusps of the houses in the birth
horoscope.
=== PAGE 0117 ===
113

Furthermore, the planets transits in the various nakshatras
and sub divisions of the nakshatras according to Krishnamurti
Padhdhati should be given importance. Only then will it be
possible to get the correct clue to the time when an event will
culminate.

Transits
On Wednesday, the 24th June, 1970 :
SURYA In 7th bhava, in Budha's rasi Mithuna, in

Rahu's star Arudhra and sub of Guru;
CHANDRA In Sathabisha ruled by Rahu ;
BUDHA It is lord of 7 and transits in the constellation

ruled by Mars occupying 2. It is also in
Rahu's sub;

RAHU Dasanatha Rahu transits in trine to the 7th
cusp, in Rahu's star and sub of Budha.

KETHU Buktinatha Kethu transit in sextile to the
7th cusp in its own constellation Makha
and sub of Budha.

The other planets are also favourable by transit, as
follows:-

Sukra in the constellation of lord of 2; Kuja in the 7th
house ; Guru in the constellation of the planet occupying 2 and
sub of Sukra owning 11; and Sani as lord of 2 in constellation
ruled by lord of 11 and sub of lord of 7th house and also its
occupant.

The Western method "PROGRESSION" which measures every
day after birth as equal to a year, also lends support.
PROGRESSION is helpful when read in conjunction with the
current dasa, bhukti and anthra and the progressed positions of
the planets in nakshatras and subs according to Krishnamurti
Padhdhati are noted.

in the girl's horoscope, in the month of June (on
24-6-1970) the planetary positions are : —

Sun progresses in the 2nd house, in star of lord of lagna.
=== PAGE 0118 ===
114

Chandra progresses in the 7th bhava, in Guru's star Budha's
sub.

Budha, lord of 7, progresses in its own constellation
and sub of Rahu.

Guru progresses in constellation ruled by Sani who owns 2.

Sukra, lord of 11, progresses in the 7th house in Rahu's
star. Kethu’s sub.

Sani, lord of 2, progresses in constellation ruled by bhukti-
natha Kethu and sub of Guru.

Rahu progresses in Rahu's star Budha's sub ;
and

Kethu progresses in Kethu’s star and Budha's sub ; while
the progressed positions of slow moving planets are only
general in their effects, the positions of the Moon, the Sun and
the faster planets Budha and Sukra are very significant. Their
progressed positions on 24-6-1970 in sensitive degrees connected
with this girl's marriage confirm the event

"God is good. When the girl runs Rahu Dasa, Kethu Bhukti,
Budha anthra and Surya sookshma, on Wednesday, the 24th June,
1970, when Chandra transits Sathabisha ruled by Rahu and when
Guru's constellation Punarvasu in Budha's rasi Mithuna rises in the
east, the marriage will be celebrated."

"Thank you—for your prediction and for the thorough
analysis of the horoscope on the basis of the principles of
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI which led you to this prediction."

[This author predicted that the marriage of a boy would be
celebrated on 7-11-69 in Dhanur Lagna. The prediction came very
true to the hour. ]

WILL I MARRY?

I think that he who created me had totally forgotten me.
"Why do you say so?"
=== PAGE 0119 ===
115

"Look ! I was born in 1931. Thirty seven long, long years have
passed. Yet, I remain unmarried. Marriage is strange to me."

"If God is asleep, why can't you pray and wake him up."

"A few weeks ago, when I felt dejected, a young gentleman
of my age came to me and during the conversation he suggested
that unmarried people should pray to Goddess Bhavani as His
Holiness Jagadguru. Kanchi Kamakoti Peetadhipathi Sri
Sankarachariar Swamigal recommended to all those aged
persons, especially girls remaining unmarried. He added that
within a year after he started to pray, he married a handsome girl and
since a few months, she was leading a happy and harmonious
wedded life." "I said to him what !.. only last week, I got a picture of
Goddess Bhavani. I have left it in my table drawer. Now that you
advise me, I shall frame it and daily pray. _ I should do that which
will give me relief." "Now I would like to tell you, Sir, Let prayer be
on one side. You, please, judge my horoscope and predict correctly.
Even if you say that I will remain unmarried, I do not mind. What
else can I do ? I shall console myself and never think about it. But if
you give a date and it does not take place then, then the houses 2 and
7 indicating marriage will offer the other results of these houses.
You know that these are maraka houses. So I will end myself when
there will be no problem." "True. Anyhow, let me scrutinise your
chart."

He presents his chart saying that one well-known astrologer
had erected the map.

"My dear boy, the horoscope when worked taking the lagna
position, birth ought to have been at 8 P.M. If you take Moon
position as is given in the chart, and calculate, the birth ought to
have been at 10-00 P.M. If the position of Sun is taken and
calculation it made, birth should be at 11-55 P.M. All these for the
date of birth, i.e. 1-5-1931. But if you calculate taking Mars, and
find out the birth time, it should be second May, the date itself
should be changed wonderful".

"Sir, I told you that he is well-known to many. I did not
say that a good astrologer did an honest work. To be known to
=== PAGE 0120 ===
116

many does not mean that he is good in his job. I myself know that
his failures are many, miserable and innumerable. But he will tom
tom (boost about it) if at all he has a lucky hit."

"Alright let me work out your chart."
"Where were you born ?

"Karachi, please".

So you are a refugee ?

"Yes"

"What is the actual time of birth ?” "10-02 P.M. LS.T.
on 1-5-1931".

Then the following is your horoscope. It is calculated
correctly referring to Raphael Ephemeris, Raphael Table of
houses and using only Krishnamurti Ayanamsa, deducting from the
figures (Sayana) obtained. Your Nirayana Chart is as given below:

Rahu 20-26 V 121
Mer. 15-28 Jup. 2-29
‘Venus 13-54 Sun 17-32 VII 21-33
IV- 0-21 V1 27-21 VHT 22-21
Mars 18-0
1-5-1931
IX 26-21
12-02 p.m. LS.T.
I 26-21 24-51 N
Satu 67-04 E
0-28
XI2721 | MC.0-21
1122-21 | Lag 21-33 "loon Kethu

X11-21 20-26

Rahu Dasa balance 13 years 6 months 2 days. Now
running Saturn Dasa Venus Bhukti from 24-08-1967.

Let us analyse. First let us see whether marriage is
promised, consider the sub lord of the 7th cusp. It is Moon's
=== PAGE 0121 ===
117

constellation and Venus sub. Where is Venus and which house
matters does he indicates? Venus is in Uthrabadra star ruled by
Saturn, who is in the second house. Therefore, Venus (the only
planet in Saturn's star) promises marriage. Not that he is the Chief
Governor for marriage but because it is in the constellation of
Saturn, occupant of second house.

"Thank God! He has not denied me. So far, I am happy.
Please proceed."

Next we have to find out which houses, are we to consider."
"Yes, they are 2, 7 and 11."
Do you know why all these are to be judged ?

"I have memorized what all you had said. I agree with that
American girl who wrote that she bad memorized everything by
reading over and over again without being bored even for a minute.
7th house denotes legal bondage, wife, she who legally shares the
property, possessions, etc., though she may or may not share our
sorrows. 2nd house indicates the family members. So, if marriage
takes place, one more member will be added to the family from the
moment of marriage; In a later date, birth of children to her will be
added one by one, if there is no twin or triplet birth : 11th house
shows long standing love, pleasure, permanent tie of friendship and
partnership in life (numerologically 2 and 11 are the same. and 7 are
the numbers of Moon )=

"How do you find out each house ? "

"Second house means the arc commencing from second
cusp and ending by the third cusp "

"Why do you not take half behind and half in advance and
call the cusp as midpoint."

"I have totally forgotten the good old traditional system
I follow only Krishnamurti Padhdhati. You have asked us to follow
the method followed by westerners and not that advocated by the
Hindus".

So, second house extends from 22° 21' Sagittarius to 26° 21'
Capricorn. Seventh house means that area commencing from
=== PAGE 0122 ===
118

21°33! Taurus to 22°21' Gemini. Similarly 11th house extends from 1°21'
libra to 27°21' Libra.

What are we to do next ?

"You have clearly said that occupants are stronger than owners.
Constellations are stronger than signs. Hence only one single method is
given by you for all queries. You do not expect us to go through tens of
thousands of slokas, one contradicting the other, confusing the readers as
well as the consultants.

“Come on, give out the order of judging the significators."

(1) Planets tenanted in the constellation of the occupants
of the houses 2 or 7 or 11.

(2) The occupants of 2 or 7 or 11.

(3) Planets situated in the constellation of the owners of the signs
where these cusps fall.

(4) Owners.

(5) Planets conjoined with or aspected by any of those found out
in the previous four conditions.

Second house : Occupant Saturn, owner Jupiter. Occupant's stars are
Pushya, Anuradha, UP. Pada. Venus alone is in the constellation Saturn in 2
(Venus is also lord of 11 as 11th cusp is in 1°2' in Libra).

Seventh house : Occupant Jupiter- Owner of Venus - Jupiter stars are
Punarvasu, Visaka, Poorvabhadra- Jupiter alone is in Jupiter's star.

11th house is occupied by Moon-Owner Venus, Kethu alone is in
Moon star. Bharani, P. Phalguni and Poorvashada are ruled by Venus. Sun
and Mercury are in Venus' stars,

"When majority of the planets are connected with the houses 2, 7 and
11, how to eliminate the useless ones and select the useful ones".

Ruling planets at the moment of judgement must agree. Further the sub
lord of each of the significators. If a planet is in such a position that its sub
lord is connected with the houses 2, 7 and 11 then this planet is useful. But
if the sub is lord of 1, 6, 10 and is the significator of 12 houses, marriage
cannot take place.
=== PAGE 0123 ===
119

Today Monday ruled by Moon. Star Ashlesha governed by
Mercury, lagna is in Taurus owned by Venus, in Moon's star Jupiter
sub.

Hence take Venus Jupiter and Moon.

Time of marriage will be Venus Bhukti Jupiter Anthra Moon
Shookshma, That will be in the first week of August

As the sub lord of the 7th cusp is Venus and it is in the 4th
house, the bride will be in the town where you reside. Venus, the sub
lord, denotes that she would be fair. Having waited all along, after
all God favors you with a charming and handsome girl on or around
on | August, Which year, Sir, you have not said. 69 or 70 or what ?

Sir, every mantra is to be repeated at least for 6 months
regularly,, systematically and sincerely. Today is 1-2-69. "Let me
make real attempt" for the 6 months. I shall send my invitation card
this year itself in July.

"Do pray" is my advice : Whether you pray or not, planets
promise partner for you in August 1969. I predict. But one thing,
astrologer can only predict But Sidhi-Purushas can bless.

Then Sir, why can't you suggest one Siddhi-Purusha - Let him
be anywhere. Now itself I will go and have such a blessing as to
have the marriage in February itself. I can't remain single any more.
Enough ! I want marriage !

"Why can't you bless me, Sir."

Yes, I will bless in the 4th week of July 1969. You will get
married in August 1969, you will attribute this to my blessings.

Fact is this. Whether one blesses or not, prays or not, puts on a
gem or not, things will and must happen according to one's fate. We
put on Gem, we pray God, we receive blessings, all these only when
the time is ripe. So it is the destiny which is the master of everything.
As I had already emphatically published in my book, now also I say
"Karma comes first. God comes next." None can dodge fate! None
can hoodwink destiny- None can bribe the God or Goddess or
planets. The nature's divine plan will go on unchanged. These can be
found out easily if you read Krishnamurti Padhdhati wherein
advanced
=== PAGE 0124 ===
120

stellar astrology is dealt with after ruthlessly exposing the
miserable failures, alternatives, contradictions, etc., in
traditional Astrology.

WHEN WILL I MARRY

This native, a lady, was born at 11°42 P.M. on 14-5-1943 at
Colombo (6° 56' North ; 79° 58' East) and her chart is as under;

1V 9-46 V 8-46 V1 5-46
Ill 7-46 Sun 29-59 Maram (R) Ven. 10-38
12-15 Jup. 27-53
VII 2-52
Mar. 28 46 Rahu
11446 27-16
Ketu VIII 4-46
a7 16 Moon
355 26-10
XII
5.46) XI 8-46 X 9-46 IX 7-46

(Balance of Venus Dasa at the time of birth was 9 months
only.)

Planets Lord ruling constel- Sub Lord
lation occupied

Sun Sun Rahu
Moon Venus Kethu
Mars Jupiter. Sun
Mercury

Retrograde) Moon Rahu
Jupiter Jupiter Venus
Venus Rahu Satum
Saturn Moon Kethu
Rahu Sun Sun

Kethu Mars Jupiter
=== PAGE 0125 ===
121

The nodes having no sign of their own first offer the results of
the planets with which they are conjoined and secondly of the lord
of the sign in which they are placed. Kethu, thus, is Sani's agent and
Rahu deputises for Moon.

The seventh cusp falls in Moon sign Kataka, Jupiter star
Punarvasu and Rahu's Sub.

Is Marriage Premised ?

Note the sub-lord of the 7th cusp. If it is a significator of house
7 or 2 or 11, marriage is promised Rahu, the sub lord of the 7th
cusp, is in the 7th house itself. Hence marriage will take place.

Which houses are we to judge in this connection ?

The second house denotes increase in the number of members
of the family by birth of children or marriage. Hence the second
house should enter into our reckoning. The next is the 7th house
which shows legal bondage with another and the partner with whom
one is to lead family life.

The eleventh house refers to the pleasure derived as a result of
permanent tie of friendship and partnership in life. Thus houses 2,
7, 11 and Sukra, the chief governor for marriage, are to be
examined.

How to find out Significator !

The second house is occupied by Mars; Mrigasira, Chitra and
Dhanishta are the three constellations governed by Mars. Kethu
alone is in Danishta. Kethu also acts as Saturn's agent by occupying
Makara (Saturn is lord of 2). Hence, Kethu and Mars signify the 2nd
house matters.

The seventh house is occupied by Rahu. Arudhra, Swathi and
Sathabisha are the three stars ruled by Rahu- Venus who is also
kalatra karaka is in Arudhra ; so Venus and Rahu offer the results
ascribed to the 7th house.

The eleventh house is vacant. The 11th cusp falls in Vrischika.
It is owned by Mars ; Mrigasira, Chitra and Dhanishta are the
constellations of which Mars is the lord. As stated before, Kethu
alone is in Mars constellation.
=== PAGE 0126 ===
122

Mars and Kethu, thus, are significators of the 11th house.

Now it is seen that Kethu, Rahu, Mars and Venus are the
significators which have to contribute for fructification of marriage.
Moon and Saturn aspect the 2nd house; the seventh is aspected by
Sani. The eleventh house is aspected by Sani and Mercury (R).

Though Saturn is a significator being lord of the 2nd house and
aspecting the 2nd, 7th and 11th houses, its results are appropriated
by Kethu who is posited in one of Saturn's Makara. Saturn is
therefore left out.

"Generally, whenever Moon is opposed by Saturn, there will
be some delay in the matter of marriage. Also whenever Saturn is in
5 in any horoscope it causes undue delay in matters connected with
marriage as Saturn in 5 will aspect the 7th house by the third aspect,
11th house by the 7th aspect and the 2nd house by the 10th aspect.

"So what? Will it deny marriage?"

"No. In your chart Mars aspects Moon. Besides, Saturn
happens to be a benefic by owning lagna and 2; it will delay
but not deny."

“When will the marriage come off?"

"Your marriage should be celebrated during Rahu Dasa,
Rahu Bhukti, Mars Anthra.

This period runs between 29-8-1969 and 26-10-1969.

Transits

According to transit, in the end of August, 1969 Sun will
transit In Venus star Poorvapalguni; Rahu, the dasa and bhukti lord
transits in the 2nd house and conjoins the natal position of Mars, a
strong significator. Rahu is also then in the sub of Venus, Saturn,
lord of 2, transits in the star of Sukra, Barani, and, in sub of Sukra.
Mars, lord of 11 and anthra-natha transits in the 11th bhava in its
own sign and sub of Rahu; Venus transits in the 7th bhava in the star
of lord of 2 and sub of Kethu, a strong significator. I predicted that
the marriage will
=== PAGE 0127 ===
123

take place in the very end of August or the very beginning of
September. Further, the day of marriage will be governed by
Saturn (as Rahu is aspected by Saturn and Kethu is in Saturn's
sign) or Mars.

In the first week of September, I received a communication
from this lady consultant informing me that the marriage was
celebrated on 30-8-1969 and it was Saturday.

TIME OF MARRIAGE

Horoscope is as follows :

Asc. 6-44
Jup. 15-16
Ketull-4l | gat 15-21 Fortuna
9-15
Ura. 29-12
Moon 19-33
Nirayan Rasi
11.10 a.m. 1.8.T.
Merc- 29-54 30—1—1941
latitude 28-40'N
Sun 17-01 Longitude 77-12'E
Mars Neptune
Ven. 27-29 24-16 _
Rahu 11-41

Balance of Rahu Dasa : 0 year 7 months 9 days,

Cusps

I 6 Aries 44

II 8 Taurus 44
Ill 3 Gemini 44
IV 26 Gemini 44
V 22 Cancer 44

VI 25 Leo 44

(Add 6 signs for other cusps)
=== PAGE 0128 ===
124

Planets and Bhavas: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus in 1
Fortuna in 2
Rahu and Neptune in 6
Mars in 8
Sun, Venus in 10
Moon and Mercury in 11
Kethu in 12.

Note : Saturn and Jupiter in conjunction.

Rahu represents Mercury by occupation of Virgo.

Planet Lord of star Lord of sub
Sun Moon Saturn
Moon Rahu Mars

Mars Mercury Rahu
Mercury Mars Saturn .
Jupiter Venus Venus
Venus Sun Moon
Saturn Venus Venus
Rahu Moon Mars
Kethu Saturn Moon

The following questions are raised —

Q. 1 Is marriage promised ?

Q. 2 If so, when, where, and with whom ?
Question 1: Is marriage promised?

Answer: Yes. Venus in a fruitful sign, and in 1) from Moon, is
an indication that marriage is promised. But Saturn in 1, forming an
aspect with Venus shows delays, impediments, and
disappointments, yet not a total denial since the Saturn, Venus
quintile aspect is good, and Venus in Vargothamamsa is definitely
stronger than Saturn in debility. Therefore a delayed marriage is
promised.

Question 2: If so, when with whom, and where?

Answer: Marriage will take place during the conjoined
periods of the significators for houses 2, 7 and 11, when transits
are also in harmony.
=== PAGE 0129 ===
125

The significators
Houses 2 and 7 are vacant. Both are owned by Venus Jupiter
and Saturn are in Venus star and Venus sub. So both are strong
significators.

Moon and Mercury are in 11. Sun and Rahu are in
Moon's star. Mars is in Mercury's star.

Rahu in Virgo represents Mercury and Kethu in Pisces
represents Jupiter.

Of these, Jupiter, Saturn and Mars do not occupy the star
or sub of planets owning houses 6, 8 or 12. We are presently
not judging 6, 8 or 12, and so we shall take Jupiter, Saturn, and
Mars as the strongest significators.

At the time of judgment, i.e., 3-12-1968, 10-45 A.M. LS.T. at
Hyderabad, the day is Tuesday, ruled by Mars. The star is Krithika
ruled by Sun, Moon transiting Aries of Mars, while Saturn's
Capricorn is ascending in the Eastern horizon. Therefore, Jupiter,
Saturn, Mars and Sun are the planets who will bring about marriage.

Jupiter Dasa cannot bring about a result since other
considerations indicate delay in marriage. Saturn Dasa, therefore,
will bless the native with marriage.

At present, Saturn Dasa—Moon Bhukti is running, and lasts
upto 12-3-1970. The next bhukti, that of Mars, between, 13-3-1970
and 21-4-1971 is favourable, and requires closer scrutiny for further
reduction in time range. The first opportunity, after providing for
Saturn's delay, occurs in April 1970 when Saturn transits the star of
Venus, while Jupiter transits Mars star in Venus sign, Libra. At that
time, Saturn in debility in Aries in opposition to Jupiter in Libra will
have the least delaying effect.

Hence, marriage will take place during April 1970.

Jupiter, Saturn and Mars owning houses 1, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
show that the husband will be a distant friend, and the marriage will
involve a long journey from the birth place. He will be well-versed
in arts holding an independent position. Lord of 2 and 7. Venus, in
the star of Sun, lord of 5, and occupant of 10, suggest that the native
will be employed, or financially independent from her husband.
=== PAGE 0130 ===
126
MARRIAGE, A PROBLEM

Horoscope of a person Born at 8-3-28 A.M. (L M.T)
on 23-5-1925 at 13 deg.N and 80 deg E.

Sun 8-45

Budh Mars 13-40
Ura 2-11 uaa | MOO. 14-02 | Lag. 16-41
414 Ven. 16-27 | Fort. 21-58
Rahu 15-23
Nap 27-13
Rasi
Kotu 15-23
Jup- 29-33 Sat. 16-44

At the time of birth, the balance of Moon dasa was 6 years 11
months and 21 days. He entered Jupiter Dasa, Mercury Bhukti on
14-1-1962.

Saturn in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 10 counted from Lagna delays the time
of fixation and celebration of the marriage and so, Saturn exalted in
the 5th house, aspecting the 7th cusp by the third aspect delays the
wedding till the native gets disgusted and dejected.

When a native has completed 30 years of age, especially in
Tamil Nadu, when.- one is married normally early, the astrologer
is to pose the question whether marriage is promised or not.

Moon and Venus are conjoined together in the fruitful sign
Taurus-Rishaba. This combination normally contributes for , early
marriage. But Venus is in the Sub of Saturn in 5, therefore, there
will be delay till Saturn sub-period is over.
=== PAGE 0131 ===
127

7th Cusp falls in Sagittarius-Dhanus, in fruitful sub ruled by
lord of 2, Moon. So the native will lead a married life. Saturn's
favourable aspect to 7th house and lord of 7, causes delay, but it
does not deny.

Jupiter occupying the 7th house is favourable for marriage and
happy married life as Jupiter is in the Constellation of Sun in 11th
house and sub of Rahu significator of 2nd house.

Lord of 2 in the 11th Bhava (Moon) is auspicious.

It is said that there is difficulty and thereby delay in fixing the
marriage if Saturn is connected with Moon and any of the houses 2,
7 or 11. Therefore one is to judge for how long Saturn will delay the
matriage.

The beneficial aspect to a planet or an adverse aspect to it
will be enjoyed or experienced by a person during their conjoined
periods and sub-periods. If an aspect causes delay to come out
successful in any attempt, the delay will be till the end of the
conjoined period of the lord receiving the aspect and the aspecting
malefic planet's Bhukti or sub-period. If the dasa is ruled by the
planet 'A' and a malefic 'B' aspect 'A' then one cannot have success
till 'A' Dasa 'B' Bhukti or 'A' Bhukti 'B' anthra is over: Later the
benefic 'A' will give the favourable result during the sub-period of a
favourable significator.

Hence, Jupiter who, as lord of 7, occupies the constellation of
Rahu, Significator of 2, and promises marriage in his dasa, cannot
be allowed to get him married till sub-period of Saturn in Jupiter's
dasa is over.

Later a strong significator will give the marriage, in
his sub-period (Bhukti).
Houses 2, 7 and 11 are judged.

(a) The planets in the constellation of the occupants of
the houses 2, 7 or 11,

(b) the occupants.

(c) the planets in the constellation of the lords of the
houses 2, 7 or 11,

(d) the lords of 2, 7 or 11,
=== PAGE 0132 ===
128

(e) planets conjoined with them, or

(f) planets aspected by them are the significators of
(1) the time of marriage,
(2) the description of partner,
(3) the state of married life, etc.

Rahu is in the second house. Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabhisha
are the stars goveered by Rahu. Mars, the lord of 11, is in Arudhra.
Saturn (the delaying planet) is in Swathi. No planet is in
Sathabhisba. Hence Mars has the strength to signify the marriage.
Jupiter occupies the 7th house. Its stars are Punarvasu, Visakam and
Poorattathi. Excepting Fortuna and Uranus, no planet in Jupiter's
star.

11th house is occupied by Mercury, Sun and Moon. Mercury
as lord of Lagna, in Parivarthana with Mars, the lord of 11, and in
the constellation of Venus, the chief governor of matrimony, is
auspicious for the fixation and celebration of the marriage.

Sun, lord of 3 in own constellation, in the 11th house indicates
that the partner will come from a known family, neither related
already closely nor a perfect stranger. She can be a distant relation.

Moon, the lord of 2, in its own constellation Rohini, in
exaltation, in the 11th Bhava, is a very strong significator.

Moon rules the second house: Jupiter is the lord of 7 and Mars
owns the 11th house. Moon and Jupiter are discussed. Mars governs
the stars Mrigasirisha, Chithra and Dhanishta. No planet occupies
any of the three stars. Mars, the lord of 11, is auspicious and strong.

Hence Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and Mars are, in their
order, strong to indicate marriage.

As the question is put at 11-20 A.M. on 19-4-1961 on a
Wednesday with Rohini star when Gemini was rising, I took this
moment to find out the ruling planets for confirmation so that I can
predict with confidence.
=== PAGE 0133 ===
129

The position of the planets then was as follows:—

Mercury Lagna
Venus Sun Moon Mars
Kethu Uranus

Rasi
Saturn
Jupiter Rabu
Neptune

Mercury, the lord of Wednesday, the Lagna, Mercury and Mars
in Lagna, with Moon in Mars star Mrigasirisha are to be judged.

Moon indicates the mind of the questioner and the nature
of the query.

Moon was in the constellation of Mars, the lord of 11; 11th
house indicates elder brother. Moon is in the second house to the
eleventh, indicating elder brother's finance or family or both. The
lord of the 11th house was in Punarvasu star governed by Jupiter,
which aspects the second house to the 111th.. Hence the query was
about the elder brother and the answer will be favourable.

Therefore, take the planets which have connection with the
ascendant and the Moon sign. They are the same planets which
will rule at the time when the result of the query will fructify.

So I decided that the marriage must take place during
Jupiter Dasa, Mercury Bhukti. The Anthra may be of Mercury,
Moon, Mars or Jupiter. Note down these periods,
=== PAGE 0134 ===
130

Then find out whether Sun transits in the sign of either
Dasanatha or Bhukthinatha and in the star of Dasanatha or
Bhukthinatha.

Jupiter Dasa :— Sagittarius and Pisces are ruled by Jupiter. In
South India, when Sun transits in Dhanus-Sagittarius none
celebrates marriage.

Hence find out whether Mercury, Moon or Mars has any
star in Pisces—Revathi is ruled by Mercury. Hence, one date
is when Sun transits in Revathi star.

Mercury owns two houses, Gemini and Virgo. Tamils do not
celebrate marriages when Sun transits in Virgo. So find the stars
belonging to the significators in Gemini. Mrigasirisha is governed
by Mars ; Punarvasu is ruled by Jupiter. So when Sun transits in
these areas, marriage can take place.

Moon owns the sign Cancer-Kataka. When Sun transits in this
sign, none celebrates marriage.

Mars owns Aries and Scorpio. In Aries there is no star
belonging to Mercury, Jupiter or Moon. In Scorpio the first 3°20" is
ruled by Jupiter and the last 13°20' by Mercury.

Hence one is to select, any of these areas.

Now, find out, from the Udu dasa system which anthara, sub
period agrees. That is the fortnight when the marriage should take
place. It is found that when Sun transits in Revathi star, he will have
Jupiter Dasa, Mercury Bhukti Mercury Anthra and Jupiter
Shookshma.

Sun transits in Revathi between Ist and 13th April, every
year. As Jupiter is the lord of the Dasa, select the sub of Jupiter
in Mercury's star Revathi, according to Krishnamurti
Padhdhati:

(a) Jupiter, the lord the sign Pisces :
(b) Revathi, governed by Mercury
(c) This area from 26°6' 4" to 27°53' 20", is under
the control of Jupiter.

Every year Sun transits in this area between sth and 10th April.
8-4-62 was a Sunday with Karthikai star upto 9-11 A.M. Then
followed the Janma Nakshathra Rohini.
=== PAGE 0135 ===
131

9-4-62 was a Monday: Rohini, Janma Nakshathra is over by
8-31 A.M. Rahu Kalam ends by 9 A.M. The star Mrigasirisha is
governed by Mars.

Actually the marriage took place, when the ascendant was
in Punarvasu star, governed by Jupiter, in the sign Gemini owned by
Mercury, in Mars Star Mrigasirisham, and on a Monday ruled by
Moon.

It is worthy to note that :—

(a) the ruling planets at the time of query are the
ruling planets at the time of birth and

(b) the ruling planets at the time of fulfilment of the
querist's desire are also the ruling planets at the
moment of query.

When a few planets are the significators for marriage, they
not only portray the time of marriage; they also describe the
partner her birth, her ruling planets and her description. Actually the
partner is born in the sign Virgo ruled by Mercury, in Hastham star
governed by Moon, in the ascendant Sagittarius owned by Jupiter
and on a Tuesday, under the control of Mars.

The bride was born at C A.M. (L.M.T.) on Tuesday
10-11-1936, at Kancheepuram. The chart is as follows :

Kethu
Saturn
Rasi
Lagna Sun Moon
Jupiter Venus Mercury Mars

Rahu

=== PAGE 0136 ===
132

Dear Sir,

I will be failing in my duty if I do not congratulate you for
the prediction which you offered in 1961 at Delhi. I consulted
you for my daughter's marriage and you predicted that she will
get married only m 1966 that too on a Monday in the last week
of May, 1966. Only today we have fixed up the marriage and it is
really surprising to note that I am celebrating it on 30th May which
is a Monday. As I am writing in a hurry, I am not giving in detail
tbe other particulars regarding the bridegroom which have also
agreed. Really he is in Automobile and in the Defense, as you said.

I thank for your uncanny prediction according to your
Padhdhati. I shall be grateful to you if you will be pleased to grace
the occasion with your presence along with your family
and children. Yours sincerely

Mr. J.
Inspector of Police
New Delhi.

The horoscope of the bride is as under :

Mart Jupiter
Saturn

Kethu Lagna

Mercury Moon
31—1—1942
Saturday
Kethu
Venus Rahu

Saturn Dasa balance at time of birth 7 years | month
and 12 days.
=== PAGE 0137 ===
133

Therefore she is running Mercury Dasa from 12-2-1949. It
will be over by 12- 3-1966.

Why should I say that till February, 1966 she cannot get
married and it should be in the last week of May, 1966 ?

(1) 7th Cusp receives aspect directly from Moon,
which is its own sign
(2) Ketu, a node, conjoined with Mercury has io give

the results of Mercury.
(3) Ketu is in the constellation of the node in the

second house
(4) Ketu is to indicate, lord of 7 also.
(5) No other planet is in the constellation of Rahu.
(6) Sun and Venus are in 7 and Jupiter is in 11. No

planet is in Sun's star except Saturn. Mars and Rahu

are in Venus star. No planet is in Jupiter's star.
(7) Moon alone is in the constellation of Saturn and

is in the sub of a fruitful planet and sign.

(8) When you study the sub, you can understand that
the favourable ones are Ketu, Saturn, Moon and Venus.
Hence, I pitched upon Ketu dasa, Ketu Bhukti ; Sani
Anthra as the time of marriage which comes after the 3rd
week of May, 1966.

Further, Sun, lord of 2, to fix the day must transit in Venus sign,
Moon star Saturn or Ketu sub. Sun enters Moon's star generally on 23rd
May any year- Saturn sub or Ketu sub will be end of May or beginning
of June. So I predicted.

It is not uncommon that a few may advance an argument, that the
girl was, so far, having Ashtama Sani. What a hasty conclusion will be
asked by a student, who will, unhesitatingly put the question "Then,
does it mean that people born with Moon in Cancer will remain
unmarried till Ashtama Sani is over ?

A few may say that "Guru balam" was not found in 1961 or 1963
etc." Now the marriage has come up. Is there the so called Guru Balam
or Viyaya Balam at the time of marriage.

It is advisable to unlearn such of those rules which will fail
miserably, in larger number of cases than occasional success in a very
few cases.
=== PAGE 0138 ===
time of marriage
(Example IT)
I. KRV born on 21-8-1932
Time of birth : 4.48 A.M. LS.T.
Place : Trichur (Kerala)
Birth star : Anusham
Balance of Sani Dasa at birth: 9 y. 0 m. 24 d.

IX 12°13' X 14°13' XI 15°13" XII 14°13"

VIII 11°13' 112°47'
NIRAYANA
BHAVA CUSPS
VII 12°47' II 11°13'
VI 14°13' V 15°13' IV 14°13' II 12°13'
Rahu 14°28'
Lagna
12°47'
Guru
14°35'
Sukra
Nirayana 29°O'
Rasi Chart k
un
4°14'
Budha
26°38'
Kethu
Sani Moon 14°28!
24°34! 10°18' Kuia

19°21'

=== PAGE 0139 ===
135

Star Lord Sub Lord

Lagna Sani Kuja
Sun Kethu Moon
Moon Sani Sukra
Kuja Moon Budha
Budha Sukra Kethu
Guru Sani Guru
Sukra Budha Sani
Sani Sukra Budha
Rahu Sani Rahu
Kethu Moon Rahu
Meridian Sukra Sukra

Bhava Positions
Lagna— Guru, Sukra and Sun

2nd House Budha
3rd_,, Kethu, Kuyja

4th ,, Moon
6th ., Retrograde Sani
9th ., Rahu

Sukra Dasa—Sukra Bhukti 15-9-1964 to 1 M-J968,

Sukra Dasa—Sukra Bhukti —Budha Antaram 15-5-1967 to
5-11-1967.

Rahu Sookshma lasts from 16-8-1967 to 11-9-1967.

7th cusp is in Capricorn (sign of Sani) in Sravana star and in
Rahu sub. Rahu is strongly aspected by MarsVopposition aspect.
Guru is in fairly exact trine aspect with Rahu, who also represents
Guru in a way. Lord of 7th house Sani is retrograde. So the
marriage of the native is likely to be delayed considerably, say, up
to middle age. Because of Guru's strong aspect on Rahu, the sub
lord of 7th cusp marriage will surely take place, but after much
vexatious delay. These views are confirmed by the follow-ing
indications also. Lord of 7, Sani is in the 6th house and in 12th
house position to the 7th. Moreover, it is a retrograde planet which
generally delays tbe matters represented by the house. Sani is
strongly aspected by Mars, who also, in turn, is aspected by Sani-
Mutual aspects, and both are square aspects
=== PAGE 0140 ===
136

Since Kuja and Sani are in the sub of Budha and as the aspect of
Kuja is passed on to Budha through Sani by trine aspect, marriage of
the native cannot take place, till the end of Budha Dasa. Added to
this, Budha is in the sub of Kethu, which is conjoined with Mars,
Budha is lord of 3 and 12. What about Kethu Dasa? Kethu gives the
effect of Mars, being in close conjunction with it. It is also in the sub
of Rahu, who is opposed by Mars. So Kethu Dasa also nullifies
marriage. Sukra is favourable, being lord of 11 and also, as it is the
fKaraka~ for marriage. Let us apply the method of K.P. and find out
the marriage time. Houses 2, 7 and 11 are to be analysed for
marriage.

Budha is in 7nd House ; Sukra alone is in Budha's star. Lord of
2 is Sun. No planet occupies Sun's stars. So Sukra and Sun are
significators.

7th house is unoccupied by planets. Moon, Guru and Rahu are
in Sani's stars. Guru aspects the 7th cusp also. We can drop Guru as
Rahu, the node is alone in Meena Rasi. So Moon and Rahu are
significators. 11th house is not occupied by any planet. Sukra is lord
of 11. Budha and Sani are in Sukha star. So the strong significators
are Sukra, Sun, Moon, Rahu, Budha and Sani. Sani can be dropped
as it is in 12 to 7 and also as Budha and Rahu are posited in its stars.
Sukra cannot be dropped, as it is in Budha's star and as Budha is in
Sukra's star. As Sun is in the star of Kethu and sub of Moon, it can
be eliminated.

Moon is posited in the star of Sani, lord of 7. Sukra, lord of 11
is in Budha's star ; Budha occupies 2nd house. Sukra is in the sub of
Sani, lord of 7.

Rahu is in the star of Sani, lord of 7. Budha occupies 2nd house
and is in the star of Sukra, lord of 11, and 4 also, by lordship and
position Sukra is the strongest significator. Next comes Budha by
position. Next comes Rahu, and finally Moon. So marriage can take
place in the conjoined periods of these planets. The Marriage can
take place in Sukra Dasa, Sukra Bhukthi, Budha Antaram and moon
or Rahu Sookshma. Now we have to see the transits of planets to
pinpoint the date of marriage.

On 28-8-1967  _ — Sukra Dasa, Sukra Bhukthi, Budha
Period ™  Antaram and rahu Sookhma
=== PAGE 0141 ===
137

Monday falls on 28-8-1967. Monday is ruled by Moon. Budha
transits Sukra's star Pooram. Sukra transits Sukra's star. Moon
transits Sukra's sign Vrishabha and transits its own star Rohini
and also is in the 11th house of the horoscope of the native.
Rahu transits Mesha rasi, in Kethu star and is in its own sub. On
this day Sun's position is exactly on the cusp of the second
house. The marriage of the native actually took place on 28-8-1967.
Even the “Muhoortam” of the marriage was in Tula lagna, ruled
by Sukra. As transit effects and dasa bhukti effects are in perfect
agreement, the incident took place exactly according to the rules
enunciated in Krishnamurti Padhdhati. So it is absolutely
necessary that dasa bhukti effects must agree with the results of
the transits of planets, at the time of fructification of an event.

H. K.C.S. born on 20-7-1911.
Place: Latitude—11 °42’N
Long. — 75°30’E
Thursday—Time 5.54 p.m. LS.T.
Star; Bharani

Y.M.D.
Sukra Dasa Balance : 900
Moon 20-40
Sani 26-0
Kuja 10-40
Rahu 13-17
Sun 4-07
Budha
21-17
Nirayana Rasi
Chart
Sukra
18-55
Guru 12-36
Lagna
19-50! Ket 13-17

Fortune 6-23

=== PAGE 0142 ===
138

IV 27°30! V 27°30 VI 23°30« VII 19°50”
III 24°30" VIII 21°30
RASI
11 21°30" IX 24°30”
119°50' | X11. 23°30” X1 27°30’ X 27°30!
Star Lord Sub Lord
Sun Sani Sani
Moon Sukra Gum
Kua Kethu Sani
Budha Budha Sukra
Guru Rahu Budha
Sukra Sukra Rahu
Sani Sukra Kethu
Kethu Rahu Budha
Rahu Kethu Budha
ASC Sukra Rahu
Fortuna Kuja Moon
M.C. Kua Guru

Houses 2, 7 and 11 and planet Sukra have to be examined
for marriage time. 7th cusp is the Budha's sign, Rahu star and
Mars sub. Moon and Sani are in conjunction. Sani aspects
the 7th cusp. Moon is in square aspect to Budha, but in close
trine, aspect to Venus, posited in the 8th house. So marriage will be
delayed up-to the middle age. Moon dasa cannot give marriage for
obvious reasons. Mars conjoined with Rahu
=== PAGE 0143 ===
139

cannot give marriage. Good results of Mars can only be given
by Rahu, as it is a node and produces all the results of Mars.

2nd house is unoccupied by planets. Sun only is posited in
Sani's star. Sun is a significator. Mars aspects Sun, but as Rahu is
conjoined with it, Rahu is to be taken as a powerful significator. It
is in Mesha Rasi. It is near to Moon also.

7th house lord is Budha, and Sun occupies the 7th house.
Saturn aspects sun—dquintile aspects. Mars aspects Sun—square
aspect. Guru conjoined with Kethu aspects Rahu and Mars—
opposition aspect But Mars conjoined with Rahu opposes Guru. So
these mutual aspects produce only neutral effects. Again, we have to
come to Rahu as a significator. 7th lord Budha is in its own star.
Lord of 11 is Sukra. Sani, Moon and Sukra are posited in the stars of
Sukra only. So finally, the significators are Rahu, Sani, Sukra and
Budha. Moon has been left out as it is in close conjunction with Sani
and also as it is lord of the 8th house.

Rahu is the strongest. It is in the sub of lord of 7. Next comes
Sani which is lord of 2 and is posited in Sukra's star. For marriage
Sani is stronger than Sun as the former is in the star of "Karaka",
Sukra. So Sun can be eliminated as a weak significator. So marriage
can take place in the conjoined periods of these planets.

Rahu Dasa—Rahu Bhukti—Sani Antaram
—Budha Sookshma

Sani Antaram in Rahu Dasa and Rahu Bhukti,
lasts from 25-4-1944 to 29-9-1944.

In it Budha Sookshma lasts from 20-5-1944 to 12-6- 1944. We
have to pinpoint the date with the help of transits of planets.

2-6-1944: On this date, Friday falls, which is ruled by
Sukra. Sun transits Vrishabha Rasi ruled by Sukra. Sani is
in Mithuna Rasi (Budha's sign) and is posited in the star of
Mars. Mars in Kataka Rasi in the star of Sani. Sun is in
=== PAGE 0144 ===
140

Rohini in Vrishaba Rasi, in Sukra's sign. Sukra is in Vrishaba Rasi
in Rohini star. Budha is in Mesha Rasi in Sukra's star. Rahu is in
Kataka Rasi. It is posited in Sani’s star and also in the 7th Bhava.
Moon transits Kanya Rasi (Budha's sign) and is in the star of Kuja.
Moon and Mars get some prominence. Mars is represented by Rahu
which is in close conjunction with it. On this day Sun forms semi-
sextile aspect to the 7th cusp. Moon forms a sextile aspect to Budha
in the radical horoscope. Sani being in close conjunction with Moon,
represents it to a very great extent. The marriage actually took place
on 2-6-1944 in Bombay. The muhoortam was fixed at about 9 p.m.
owing to war time conditions obtaining then. It may be of some
interest to see in detail the transits of the significators and luminaries
on this day for the "Muhoortam Time" : —

Sign-Degree-Minute

S.O.1 Star-Lord Sub
Moon 5-27-12 Mars Guru
Sun 1-18-47 Moon Budha
Rahu 3-7-0 Sani Budha
Budha 0-20-40 Sukra Budha
Sukra 1-11-57 Moon Rahu
Sani 2-4-37 Kua Sukra

So, transit effects of planets agree with the Dasa bhukti
periods according to the rules of Krishnamurti Padhdhati.
=== PAGE 0145 ===
141

LETTERS TO THE AUTHOR

Shri K. S. KRISHNAMURTHI,
Editor,

Astrology and Athrishta,
MADRAS.

Sir,

I am a regular reader of your magazine since August 1969.
I was so much impressed by your scientific approach that I had an
earnest desire to consult you. To my good luck your good self was
available in Delhi. I consulted you on 14-10-69 at about 8 a.m., at
Lodi Colony. The following particulars will show how your
prediction came out correct.

Question: My marriage when ?

I was asked to give a number between 0 and 249.

At that moment the number which came to tny mind
instantaneously was 77. Within few seconds you gave the follow-
ing predictions in writing. (I do not know how your goodself could
calculate so quickly).

(1) Negotiations after 2-12-69 alone will materialise.

(2) Betrothal—Third week of February 1970.

(3) Marriage—May 1970.

Now the actual dates.

(1) Negotiations materialised on 5-12-69.

(2) Betrothal date was finished on 17-2-70 i.e., exactly in
the third week of February.

(2) Marriage-Fixed on 7-5-1970.

There are people who laugh at those who consult astrologer.

But I say that nobody can ever dare laugh at a person who consults
our Guruji or the followers of His Padhdhati.

I may also state that another astrologer collected details of
my past life, rectified my birth time according to his method and
then predicted that my marriage could not take place before
October 1970.
=== PAGE 0146 ===
142

Long live our Guruji whose predictions on the basis of
Horary are more true than another who rectified birth time
collecting past data.

Thanking once again,

Yours faithfully.
S.P. G.
A 65/331, Moti Bagh-1,
, New Delhi—23,
31st March, i970.

No. 25, Road 11- 12.

Petaling Jaya,
MALAYSIA.
The Editor,
ASTROLOGY & ATHRISHTA
12, Brahmin Street,
Saidapet,
MADRAS 5.

Revered Sir,

This letter is to express my deep reverence and gratefulness
to you in respect of your correct prediction and gracious
blessings.

On 16th May 1970, my parents consulted you about the
time of my marriage. You assured us that betrothal ceremony
will take place on 3lst May 1970 and marriage on 3rd September
1970.

As the first part came very true, we invited you to do pooja
and bless us.

We are very happy and grateful. You may publish my
letter of gratefulness in your valuable book for the benefit
of all the readers.

We request you to bless us on the day of may marriage if
you visit Petaling Jaya.

With my respects and regards.

Yours sincerely,
S.V.S.
(Marriage took place on 3-9-70, as predicted.) — Author
=== PAGE 0147 ===
143

Respected Sir,

I am glad to write this letter to you, for your disciple Mr. G. D.
Kale's prediction about the date of my marriage has proved to be
very true. 1 have been hearing much about you and your method
"Krishnamurti Padhdhati" till now ; but today I am myself a witness
to the great accuracy of your method. Need I say that this incident
has increased my measure of esteem towards you ?

Yours truly,

(Sd.) A.P.D.

B-10, Jeevan Tarang,

193, Garodia Nagar,
Ghatkopar (East), BOMBAY.

From
Dy. Regr. of Newspapers of India,
A—43/D2, Moti Bagh,
NEW DELHI-23.

My dear Gurudev,
Namaskar.

I take this opportunity of sending you all our sincere good
wishes for a happy New Year full of prosperity and good luck.

With your blessings the marriage of my daughter was
celebrated on 24-11-69. She is now in U.K. and with God's grace
happy. All these have happened as predicted, by you.

Surprisingly the predictions concerning my other daughter
also have come very true. She got a flat in Bombay and her husband
had promotion on the dates of prediction, and has been transferred to
SURAT.

Yours Sincerely,
(Sd.)V.S. V.
=== PAGE 0148 ===
144
SEPARATION FROM PARTNER

Separation comes only after union. So let us examine for
the union and then the separation.

The horoscope of the native is as follows : —

Asc 20-25 | Moon on II 22-25 |Ketu 14-11

. Sun 7- IV. 15-25
Ven 19-21 | Vere 19-20
Mars 21-28
I 25-43
Sat 25-33
XII 9-43 21-4-1936 V 9-25
5-07 a.m.
30-55N
75-54 E
XI 9-25 VI 9-43
Jup 01-24
Rahu 14-11
MC 15-25

IX 22-25 VIII 25-43 VII 20-25

Kethu Dasa balance 6 years 10 months 25 days.
Union was on 22-6-65. Tuesday Uthrapada star day.

Judge houses 2, 7 and 11. Second house extends from 25°48'
Aries to 22°25' Taurus. Seventh extends from 20°25' Virgo to 25°
43’ Libra. 11th is from 9°25' Capricorn to 9°43' Aquarius. No planet
is posited in the second, seventh and eleventh houses,

Lords of 2, 7 and 11 are Mars, Mercury and Saturn. Find out
whether there is a node in any of the signs owned by these three
planets. Kethu in Gemini represents Mercury, lord of Virgo, where
tbe 7th cusp falls, (7th house is only 10° in Virgo, beginning at 20°
in Virgo and 25° in Libra. Even though most of the seventh house is
in Libra yet the lord of the seventh Bhava is that planet which own
the sign where the 7th cusp falls.) Hence take Kethu also and give
preference to Kethu
=== PAGE 0149 ===
145

Lord of 2 Mars governs Mrigasira, Chitra and Danishta. No
planet is in Mars star. Hence Mars is a significator. Mercury rules
Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi — Venus alone is in Mercury star
and Venus is very strong. Kethu governs Asvini, Magha and Moola.
Moon, Sun and Jupiter are in Kethu star. Sun is exalted. Jupiter is in
own sign. Both are stronger. Saturn governs Pushya, Anuradha and
Uthrapadrapada. No planet is in Saturn star. Hence Saturn is very
strong. Therefore Mars, Jupiter, Sun and Saturn are the strongest

Actually marriage took place during Sun Dasa Jupiter Bhukti,
Saturn Anthra which ran between 12-5-1965 and 28-6-1965 on the
day when Jupiter Shookshma started. The day of marriage being
Tuesday, Mars ruled the day. The Nakshatra in which Moon
transited was Uthrapadra governed by Sani ; Moon was in Meena
Rasi owned by the Guru.

Hence the method suggested by Guruji Shri K.S. Krishna
murti is very correct. All points do agree.

(Let us see whether marriage was promised ; if so once or more
than once. Guruji has said that it is the sub lord of the 7th cusp
which decides the above factors. The 7th cusp is in moon
constellation and Kethu sub. Kethu representing Mercury as lord of
7 promises marriage. As Kethu is posited in Gemini a dual sign and
it was in Rahu constellation who was situated in Sagittarius another
dual sign it is certain that he will marry more than once ; plurality
promised.)

According to Guruji, it is not a tendency. It is a certainty.
Hence this native will marry more than once and it is for the time of
event, significators are selected by judging the houses 2, 7 and 11
which never fails.

(One important factor which readers should note is that if a
planet happens to be the significator of any of the houses 2, 7 and 11
and it itself happens to be the strong and single significator of the
sixth house, it will not give the marriage even though it is a
significator of 2, 7 or 11 as the sixth house is separation from wife if
already married. When such is the case, how can it give marriage)
=== PAGE 0150 ===
146
Separation
Judge houses 1, 6, 10and 12.
No planet is in 6 and 10. They are owned by Sun and Jupiter.

Moon, Sun, Mercury and Mars are in 1. Saturn and Venus are
in 12. Kethu is in Mercury's sign. Rahu is in Jupiter's sign. Hence
majority of the planets are more for separation. Hence it will be
very difficult to fix in which period one will have this separation as
most of the planets are in one way or the other connected with the
houses 1, 6, 10 and 12.

Only in such cases, ruling planets at moment of query are
useful to reject a few and select the actual significators. Today
Saturday 18-1-69. Lagna at which this is judged is Taurus ruled by
Venus. The star in which lagna falls is Karthik governed by Sun.
Moon transits in Saturn sign Sun star Uthrashada. Sun's star is not
occupied by any planet. Saturn star is not occupied by any. Venus is
in Mercury star and own sub (posited in 12). Hence Venus indicates
about marital life (7th house matters) and also separation.

Jupiter which is connected with 7th house matters as it was in
Moola ruled by Kethu who represents Mercury, owner of 7th house
is in Venus sub. Hence Jupiter is also for separation. Hence Jupiter
Bhukti Venus Anthra gave separation.

Can there be a divorce?

As the 7th cusp sub lord is Kethu which occupies Gemini,
plurality is indicated. As our law does not permit second marriage,
when the first partner is alive, there can be either of the two ; Le.,
demise of first wife and then second marriage or divorce and after
the lapse of some period, second marriage.

Further if the sub lord of the second cusp is connected with 7th
house, second marriage; if connected with 11th house, one will keep
a keep (get basic sustenance), as 7th house significator shows legal
bondage whereas the 11th indicates attachment and friendship.

Second cusp is in 25°43' in Aries. Sub lord is Mercury. It is
lord of 7. Hence second cusp is connected with the 7th. Therefore
second marriage is promised.
=== PAGE 0151 ===
147

Moon is in Kethu star Kethu sub, Moon is very strong in giving
second marriage-Jupiter will contribute for second marriage Mars,
lord of second cusp, has no planet in its star. It must bring about
second wedding. Hence Moon Dasa Mars Bhukti Jupiter Anthra will
bring about second marriage in March 1970. Divorce will be
sanctioned in Moon, Rahu, i.e., June 1969

DAUGHTER'S WEDDING - WHEN?

The horoscope of your daughter is given below : —

VIL 6-28
Moon 28-19 | VIII 5-32
. VI 10-32
V 11-32 Sat. 17.35
IV 9-32 Rahu 0-22
7—10—1944 IX 6-32
9-45 a.m.
19-50 N
Il 6-32 74-48 E
Kethu 0-22 X 9-32
Jup. 22-32
Merc. 10-31

Ven. 17-59 XI 11-32

Lagna 6-28
115-32 XII 10-32
Mars 2-45 | Sun 20-47

Mars Dasa balance; 4 years, 4 months 18 days.

As regards marriage, one is to judge houses 2, 7 and 11. Lagna
is in Scorpio (Nirayana). The second cusp falls in Sagittarius at 5°
32' and the house extends up to 6°32' in Capricorn. Kethu is in
Capricorn at 0°22'. Therefore, Kethu is in the 2nd house. 7th cusp
falls at 6°28' in Taurus and the 8th cusp is at 5°32' in Gemini. 7th
extends from 6°28' Taurus to 5°32' in Gemini. Moon is in 28°19! in
Taurus. Therefore Moon alone is in the 7th house. 11th cusp falls at
11°32' Virgo and the 12th at 10°32' Libra. As Mercury is in 10°31'
Virgo, it goes to 10th bhava but Sun 20°47' in Virgo is in the 11th
=== PAGE 0152 ===
148

Bhava, Mars in 2°45' in Libra is in the 11th whereas, Venus in 17°
59' goes to the 12th Bhava. Therefore the occupants of 2, 7 and 11
are Kethu, Moon, Sun and Mars.

No planet is in Kethu star. Mercury and Sun are in
Moon's star, Kethu is in Sun's star and Moon and Mars are in
Mars star.

One has to see whether any of the significator's sign is
occupied either by the nodes Rahu or Kethu. In Moon sign
there is Rahu. Therefore even though Moon is in the 7th Bhava, we
have to give preference to Rahu and planets in its constellation.
(Further Rahu is in the constellation of Guru, lord of 2.) So we have
to take Venus and Saturn posited in Rahu constellation. So the
above are the significators.

To eliminate a few significators and give importance to the
other few, also to reduce the number of significators and make
a selection of the best and strongest, we have to find out the ruling
planets at the moment of judgment, as at present i.e., at the moment
of judgment the lagna falls at 22°55' and the star is Pushya (Saturn
star in Moon sign on Monday, the 9th December 1968, we have to
take only Jupiter, Saturn, Venus and Moon or Jupiter Saturn, Venus
Rahu ! The latter is stronger.

According to transit also we have to judge when it will agree
with all these. Negotiation will take place at the time Sun transits in
Jupiter's sign Saturn star, 1.e., 3rd week of March, 1970. Betrothal
will come up during Jupiter, Saturn, Venus, Moon conjoined period,
i.e., around 3rd week of April 1970, and the marriage will take place
during the time when Sun is in Jupiter star, Saturn sub around 7th
July, 1970.

The 7th cusp falls at 6°28' in Taurus, which is Venus' sign. Sun's
star and Mercury sub. Therefore, tbe physical feature and the
character of the bridegroom will be absolutely satisfactory,
magnanimous, modest, polite, accommodative and adjusting; but
always having dual thoughts and taking time to take a decision. As
regards his profession is concerned, we have to judge 9°32' of
Aquarius, Saturn sign Rahu star Jupiter sub. To me it appears that he
will be a Sales Representative or an agent to deal with Drugs and
Pharmaceuticals. He will be in tbe medical line.
=== PAGE 0153 ===
149
SON'S MARRIAGE—WHEN?

"My son was born on the 11th September, 1942 at 1-56 A.M.
CST.) at Alu ihara (7N30' and 90E57'). I want to know when he will
get married"

His correct horoscope is worked out below :

Lagna 3°28'
X 5°28« XI 6°28 XII 7°28' Jup. 26°32'
Kethu
10°26" II 3°28'
IX 2°28) Lagna 3°28'
Mithuna TH 2°28"
Ven. 7°28'
VUT 3°28' Rahu 10°25'
Sun 24°31'
Moon 26°32'
Mars 2°43'
VII 3°28 VI 7°28' V 6°28 IV 5°28'
Mercury
20°26'

Ayanamsa used ; 22°57' (Krishnamurti) balance Venus Dasa at
birth is 2 months 12 days.

Planets Lord of the Sub Lord

Constellation
Sun Venus Mercury
Moon Venus Kethu
Mars Sun Jupiter
Mercury Moon Venus
Jupiter Jupiter Kethu
Venus Kethu Rahu
Saturn Moon Mercury
Rahu Kethu Saturn

Kethu Rahu Jupiter
=== PAGE 0154 ===
150

AhC seventh cusp is in Kethu star and Sun sub.

The lord of 7th, Jupiter, is in lagna in Gemini aspecting 7th
house and the sublord of 7th cusp, Sun, is a significator as it is
conjoined with lord of 2, Moon, hence marriage is promised.

For marriage, consider houses 2, 7 and 11. Second house is
vacant. Its lord is Moon whose constellations are Rohini, Hasta and
Sravana. Mercury is in Hasta while Saturn is in Rohini. Hence
Mercury, Saturn and Moon are the significators of second house.

Seventh house is vacant. Its lord is Jupiter. Punarvasu, Visaka
and P. B. pada are the stars of Jupiter, No planet is in the above stars,
except Jupiter himself who is in Punarvasu. Hence Jupiter is a strong
significator.

Eleventh house is vacant. Its lord is Mars. Its constellations are
Mrigasira, Chitra and Dhanishta. No planet is in the above stars.
Hence Mars is a strong significator.

Mars, Sun, Rahu and Venus are in conjunction with the
significators Mercury and Moon. Hence Rahu is the strongest; others
are weak.

Now reject those planets which are in the sub of the planets in
1, 6 and 10, as these are the 12th house to the houses, 2, 7 and 11,
and select the planets that are on the sub of the planets signifying 2,
7 and 11.

So your son should get married during the conjoined periods of
the significators. Now your son is running Rahu dasa, Jupiter Bhukti
from Sth August, 1968 to 29th December, J970. Hence the sub
period of Jupiter is highly favourable for marriage.

"Well it be possible to hint at the month of marriage, please ?"

"Well, it is always done."

Any doubts must be clarified and confirmed with the ruling
planets at the time of judgment. Now the time is 11-54 P.M.
- 10-1969) today is Thursday, ruled by Jupiter.
=== PAGE 0155 ===
151

Moon transits in the sign (Simha) of Sun and in the star of
Sun too.

Ascendant rising at this moment is Dhanus, the sign of
Jupiter, and the lord of star in which this ascendant transits in
Venus.

Hence the ruling planets are Jupiter, Sun and Venus. In the
natives' chart, Rahu and Venus are in the same sign and star and as
such Rahu represents Venus too. Hence the common ones found
among the significators are Rahu and Jupiter. So I predict that your
son will get married in Rahu Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti, Rahu Anthra,
Rahu Shookshma or Jupiter Shookshma and it will be between 10th
August, 1970 and 9th September, 1970 (mostly in Rahu itself). This
is definite and will take place without any failure.

"Krishnamurti Padhdhati is true and I am telling the
truth."

“Can you tell me the exact day, please ?"
"It will be a Thursday."

"I mean, can you pin-point the date please?"

"That is simple for the followers of KRISHNAMURTI
PADHDHATI. Now we are still in 1969. I do not have the
ephemeris, for the year 1970. it will be available in December only.
Hence please call on me in the happy New Year when it is available
and I will pin-point tbe correct date for you."

All these are worked out according to "KRISHNAMURTI
PADHDHATI" which is the "Kamadhenu" to all those yearning for
the milk of TRUTH.

(It would be on 27-8-1970) when Sun will cross the natal
position of Rahu ; Mars, lord of 11, comes to Kethu's star in Sun's
sign Simha (Kethu and Sun conjointly rule the 7th cusp ; Rahu
transits in its own star and sub of Guru, bhukti lord; and bhukti lord
Guru transits Swathi owned by Rahu. So on Thursday, Punarvasu
star day, in Thula lagna on 27-8-1970 marriage must be celebrated.
[Author].
=== PAGE 0156 ===
152
LIFE WITH WIFE

"What about my married life?"
"Please give a number within 249".
"78, please".

"For 78 the lagna is 21 degrees 33 mts., 20 seconds in
Cancer".

The horoscope is as follows for this time on 15-10-1969
for 28°40' N, 77°12' East:

Saturn (R)
13-13
IX 15-07 XI 20-07 XII 22-07
X 17-07
Rahu
Lagna
26-03 21-33-20
VIII 16-07
II 16-07
VII 21-33 Kethu
26-03
_ Venus 3-53
Mars V20-07 Mer. 10-27
22-20 Il 15-07
Moon IV 17-07 | yy 24-17
vI22.07 18-39 Sun 28-28

in order to ascertain whether the married life will be
pleasurable or painful, judge the sub-lord of the 11th cusp. No
doubt, the 7th house indicates wife; yet for harmony, happiness and
pleasure which are indicated by the 11th house, one is to judge the
sublord of the 11th cusp. 11th cusp falls in Moon's star and Kethu
sub. Kethu is in the second house, which mean 8 to the 7th. The
query concerns the 7th house relative and 11th unity. When Kethu
is in the constellation of a planet 8 to 7, Sukra. and it (Kethu) itself
is in the 8th to 7, then it is most undesirable to the 7th house
relative. Kethu is to give the results of Venus as it is in Venus
constellation ; also of Sun as it is in Sun's sign.
=== PAGE 0157 ===
153

Venus is in Sun's star, Saturn sub. Saturn is in retrograde motion;
therefore, Kethu cannot give pleasant life with this wife.

Next query would be, WILL IT END IN DIVORCE ? Moon
which indicates the nature of query is in the constellation of
Mercury who is deposited in 8 to 7 : it is lord of 3 and 12 to you.
12th house is not occupied by any planet. Mercury is the owner and
Moon alone is in Mercury star. Therefore, separation is indicated by
Mercury and Moon.

Divorce is to be seen from houses one, six and ten. First house
is not occupied ; 6 (which is 12 to 7) is occupied by Mars; and the
10th is owned by Mars. Jupiter and Sun alone are in Mars' star. Mars
shows bold action, quarrels and wife leaving you and living apart,
separately. Saturn aspecting the 7th and situated in Kethu
constellation nurtures no happy relations with this wife : and Jupiter
in Mars star will lead you to a court of law and cause litigation. The
moment Mercury Dasa Kethu Bhukti starts, exactly after 1 month
and 2 days, the case will end and divorce will be awarded.

The next query would be whether you will have another
marriage. We have to find out the sub-lord of the7th, and if it is in
any manner connected with a dual sign or a dual planet, second
marriage is shown. Venus is the sub-lord of the 7th and Venus is
conjoined with Mercury in Mercury's sign. Therefore, during
Mercury Dasa Venus Bhukti, or Mercury Dasa, Kethu Bhukti and
Mercury Anthra, second marriage will take place after legal
separation from first wife.

(In the course of my lectures in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, I
explained to all the students how to find out the date of first
marriage which come very correct at your age of 18). Now
according to the Horary method, I have explained how and when the
second marriage will come up.

Just like the Australian Astrologer said, when you treat this
subject astrology, scientifically, and come out correct in the nature
and time of event, the future also must be correct. It is not intuition
which is irrational and which vanishes with that person. This is
science. It is K.P. So, Be sure.

May God give you good life with second wife ?
=== PAGE 0158 ===
MARRIED LIFE

Number given it 77.
Time of judgment 9-30p.m. 21-1-1961 Tuesday
Poorvapadra star, Kumba Rasi. Horoscope is as follows.

Sat 26-13

Rahu
10-11

Venus
25-01

Moon

24-20

21-1-69
9-30 P.M.

Mercury (R)
22-34

Sun 8-07

Ketu

Lagna
13-20 to Mars 10-11

- Jup-(R
16-40 19-22 up(R

Jupiter Dasa 10 years 9 months 24 days.

Query is about your daughter. Number is given by you.
So take the 5th house counted from the lagna shown by your
number, as the lagna of daughter and then judge with the position of
planets as is at the moment of judgment

As 77 denotes Sagittarius Lagna. Position 13°20' to 16°40' So
5th cusp will fall in Bharani first Pada in Aries between 13°20! to
16°40".

For married life, planets connected with 6th house, Le.
significators of 6th house, bring about separation due to partner's
walking out or desertion 12th house significators denote that the
native will seek separation, get out and live singly, 8th house
significators denote disharmony and quarrel. 8th house does not
threaten separation. The native will experience difficulties and
continue to live together.

The seventh house counted from Aries is occupied by Man. No
planet is in Mars’ star. Hence Mars denotes 7th house matters. 8th
house is not occupied by any planet. It is owned by Mars. It
promises lot of difficulties, difference of opinion
=== PAGE 0159 ===
155

and a patient victim to tortures. 12th house is occupied by Saturn.
Rahu is in Saturn's star. Therefore whenever Rahu sub-sub period
operates, the girl will visit her parent's place and remain alone.
Jupiter and Kethu are in the 5th Bhava to the 5th. But Kethu
represents Mercury lord of 6. Therefore during the sub periods of
Saturn deposited in Mercury constellation and during Mercury and
Kethu sub periods disharmony, disagreement, dissatisfaction and
dispute are marked. Only when Venus sub period starts, i.e. after 2
years 8 months 6 days, the son-in-law will realise and he will be
toned down. He will purchase peace and make all efforts to lead a
happy harmonious life.

Divorce is not shown. Patience is to be cultivated by your
daughter, as Aries happens to be the 5th counted from the Lagna
that rises according to your number.

Let her pray Goddess Lakshmi whom Arjuna prayed
according to his Guru's advice. (Lakshmi Hridayam.)

Since Jupiter and Venus favour happy life, the birth
Nakshathra should be Visaka or Poorvashada. As these two stars are
in either of their signs and stars.

The horoscope of your daughter is as follows :

Rahu
7-11-1948
Kagna Saturn
Sun
Brhaspati Mars Budha Venus
Kethu

Sun Dasa balance 2 years 4 months 6 days.
=== PAGE 0160 ===
156

According to her chart Rahu Dasa has started. So far, Mars
Dasa was on. Mars was in Jyeshta ruled by Mercury, lord of 6 and 9
in the sub of Sun, lord of 8 in 10 (Vyaya to 11) Hence the trouble
from the time of marriage. Rahu Dasa Guru Bhukti after 2 years 8
months will bring fortunate bright harmonious and absolutely
satisfactory life.

LOVE AND LIFE

IF THE SUB LORD OF THE Sth CUSP IS IN

Aries:

Male: You are extremely frank and enthusiastic in love
affairs. Your good nature and charm will attract the opposite
sex, You will take practical steps. You desire to have freedom and in
love affairs and ever lasting affection You can be happy, if your
dominant nature is softened. Generally, you are impatient and
emotional. Your love is very deep but if it is not reciprocated you
are broke that is why many of you choose a wrong woman who will
squander your money and also arouse your suspicion. Since you are
also extremely bold and independent, you care for nothing, you do
not hesitate to pick up a quarrel, you are not afraid of bloodshed.
Your temper will be both short and hot. You can talk ; you can try to
convince the other party. You will continue your efforts till you
succeed or you fail miserably. You do not give up till you see the
finish. Even during the time of misunderstanding you will start
having an eye upon another girl. No doubt, if the wife proves to be
faithful you will allow her to have her way in many matters. At the
same time there will be limitations, so that break up of marriage will
not come. Thus, you will prove to be a very strict as well as
desirable partner. To please your wife you will make impulsive
purchases, even on credit. Bad Arians will make mistake in love
affairs though basically honest. If such an action indicates that you
have broken your partner's heart, you will feel miserable and be
unhappy. You will keep up the love affairs alive as long as your
mate is willing to sustain interest in sex. If you find that she does not
respond, you will satisfy your sexual pleasure elsewhere. You need
flattery, anyhow
=== PAGE 0161 ===
157

you should cultivate tact ; you should understand the psycho-
logy of your mate. Generally you marry in haste and repent in
the leisure.

female : Like the male you also will have desire to dominate.
You will be independent and act forcibly even directing the husband.
You cannot relish subordination. You have your own principles and
you act according to your conscience. You are thoroughly upset if
you find that the partner is not honest but cunning and evasive. You
will have the sane sexual inclination. You will be very passionate
periodically. You expect mainly this from your husband so it is
advisable to have control over your emotions. Normally it tempts you
to have many affairs even before marriage. This you are aware even
from your teen-age. It is advisable to have control over your emotion,
anger and independence. Cultivate to give up pride and avoid
speaking high of your own family. Do not expect so much that your
husband should always attend on YOU, speak high of you alone and
never speak well of any other lady, especially in your presence. If by
chance, you are lucky and you marry a simple man, you will over-
power and subdue him in all the activities. As the husband may be a
spend-thrift, and he is the only earning member, you must save a
portion of what he gives to you.

IF THE SUBLORD OF 5th CUSP IS IN

Taurus:

Male: You are not generally impulsive. You take long
time to decide and select a partner in life. You will stick on to one
after having made such a selection. And you will also leave no stone
unturned till you come out successful. You try to lead a peaceful
harmonious happy life. Yet there can be romance also in spite of
yourself being faithful to your mate. Your emotions will be deep.
You hate quarrel and confusion. You will be blessed with a loving
wife much devoted to you. You will have affectionate and warm
partner responding to your kind treatment. You enjoy company of
only the pleasing member of the opposite sex. You are motivated by
the thought of an honourable marriage, limited number of children
gracious
=== PAGE 0162 ===
158

domestic environments and enough money. You are sensitive.
You cherish your wife as the prized possession and in the privacy
you are very amorous and extremely sensual. You will embrace her
hungrily and satisfy her in full.

Female: Your sex life is closely indicated with your need
for security. You will always be gracious in your approach to
sex and love. You are sincere and emotional. Generally, early
marriages meet with disappointment; divorce will be that last resort
You dislike to change anything. You try to have property and save.
You cultivate that habit to be economical and increase the wealth.
You do not mind about the black mailing of other people but you try
to keep the home in apple-pie order (neat). Some of you will marry
for material gain rather than romance because finance is of major
interest to you. You are always mindful of making money and
maintaining a pleasant home with necessary accoutrements/
equipments. Even if time passes you do not mind to wait till you
find a man who will offer you enough financial security to ensure
the fulfilment of your desires and dreams. You may also try to have
business on your name or you may have partnership ; you will be
very attractive, so you can make such a selection while finding out a
husband for you.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Gemini

Male: You are capable of making friends very quickly and also
equally you will find fault with friends, that is why you take a long
time to find out a suitable partner in your life. You will consider that
marriage involves responsibility and you may not be able to
undertake such an entanglement at an early age. Since you know that
you are fickle minded, changeable and ambitious, you think that
even though there is a proposal for marriage, you think why you
should not wait for tomorrow, expecting that there may be
something better. You consider sex as something to be enjoyed for
the moment but throughout life it is a great burden. You also wish
not to get yourself tied up to one; you prefer variety in life. The
more the romances, the more happy you will be. So you will baffle
your associates.
=== PAGE 0163 ===
159

Naturally, the friendship gets broken, you care more to have an
intellectual companion who will be steady and accommodative. You
are fond of proceeding always with wife during short journeys. You
expect your wife to agree with you whenever you want to change the
surrounding and environment You are also so clever that you will
end any romance if you feel that that person is a source of only
expenses, causing loss. You will desert over-bearing wife. You
cannot tolerate constant pressure from her. As regards love affairs,
you are like a child. You are at best when your wife understands you
and behaves intelligently. You do not want to be a hen-pecked
husband.

Female: You are generally intelligent. Your strongest appeal is
mental companionship; you do not relish to be only a house keeper;
even though you get married if you would have been already in
service or well equipped in any service, you will not give up your
outside activities. You feel miserable if your husband resents. You
have to be more tactful if you want to lead a happy and harmonious
life. As years pass on, occasions may arise when you have to choose
either of the two, that is, to live along with tbe husband or to stick on
with the job. If you give up the job then you take to domestic life
with utmost sincerity and devotion : you will be highly refined.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IS

Cancer:

Male: You will find that the life is not worth living without
romance. You will sacrifice your comforts and remain loyal and
affectionate. There is one defect in you. You cannot impress on the
mind of the partner that you love her though you are sincere, honest
and true. Your partner will consider you as feeble minded and
changeable, even though you may be stubborn and determined. You
enjoy your life in full. Marriage alone brings you a well settled life.
You will be adjusting and accommodative, though occasionally
exciting and fussy. Your wife will have the way for domestic
comforts and prosperity. So you try to keep her cheerful and
jubilant. You should try to please her in all ways. Though you are
devoted to your wife, your interference in household routine will
spoil your good
=== PAGE 0164 ===
160

intentions. The main defect in you is that you feel dissatisfied and
so you indulge in criticism of some thing or the other. You are
detached from reality. You prefer to remain at home and look after
your aged parents with full devotion. To you, sex is incidental to
your happiness and so you do not take up your sexual side even
when there is the opportunity. You are less moody but a little shy.
Your wife may leave the children under your care and go to any
entertainment and you are a good husband to oblige her and a good
father to attend upon them. You avoid divorce. Because you desire
to maintain family life, putting up with all horrors of life, if you are
unlucky.

Female: You are genuine in your life and sincere in your
devotion to your husband. You can be a little moody ; yet you
feel satisfied with anything offered by your husband. You prove
to be a good mother but you share the responsibility of bringing up
the children with your husband. You are adaptable, affectionate,
beautiful, passionate, pleasing, sincere and sympathetic. You will
never share any pains to attend to the necessity of your husband. In
youth you will immerse yourself in romance, reading love stories
which will stimulate and such poetry. You dress well, make up well,
and love a person ; as you consider love is sex. You may criticise
your husband for his financial instability if he does not provide
properly; you accuse him. You can be easily pleased by your
husband if he daily offers flowers and other small materials for your
make up, etc. and also by celebrating your birthday etc, If he does
not do, you consider that he no longer loves you. So, you retaliate
and you do not allow your husband to satisfy himself sexually. If
you think that he is using you for animal lusts you never yield but
take bed in the next room. If you have to survive your husband, you
do not mind taking a second person, as you want to lead a family
life. You prefer to live with your children. You cannot be away
from them. You are erratic in sex and thereby bewilder your
husband. If you have lost two husbands you never hesitate to marry
a third, not for sexual pleasure but for wealth. You make friends of
your own sex. You find pleasure in keeping company with them just
like one needs air, water and food. You need pleasure company.
You are loyal and also emotional.
=== PAGE 0165 ===
161
IJ THE SUB-LORD OF THE Sth CUSP IS IN

Leo:

Male: You are romantic. You love deeply and you will be
carried away by love. You cheer up your wife most skill-fully like
an actor in a comedy scene. You are an ideal lover as you will be
fiery and passionate. You do not like any demonstration of love in
public. You consider it below your dignity You have abundant
charm and you are attractive to the opposite sex. It is likely that
your wife is jealous as you will be found in the midst of a crowd of
ladies. Unless you make a proper choice of your wife, there cannot
be proper understanding. She should be able to share your pleasure,
when you give parties to others and you are excited in their midst If
your wife understands you and agrees with you, then you like her,
love her and admire her. You will fit in domestic routine admirably.
You will not allow anybody to disregard your wife. You are very
proud of your family. You cannot tolerate any ill repute. You are
always conscious of your social understanding and care for prestige.
Understanding of each other is necessary to avoid any trouble in
married life. Even though you may not like to be the master of your
household yet you keep control of all bedrooms. Sexually you are
demanding but always gracious. Your life will be sustained and
marriage also will be happy if your wife returns your passion and
show equal affection. You generally over-do. You should make
attempts to right your wrongs. You will be an extremist, therefore
you should cultivate such good habits to lead a harmonious life ;
otherwise your disappointment will be great And you may become
embittered. Do not try to be too domineering.

Female; You are ambitious and ideal; you will manage your
home admirably. You are a successful social worker. You can make
favourable impression on all. Your devotion both to your house and
also to the general public is supreme. You will be offered prominent
position. You are a self-sacrificing lady with ever-lasting love. You
cannot expect any good return from those to whom you lend your
assistance at the risk of your own interest. You should not exceed
your authority or spend lavishly. You must be kept under control.
You will
=== PAGE 0166 ===
162

slowly appreciate your husband's good nature, affection, kindness
and real love, to lead a pleasant progressive, prosperous and
peaceful life. You may have pretty fixed ideas. And you may feel
that your world is love and you will expect others to do only those
which you desire and consider right. You should also know that
your husband is your senior but not your servant. No doubt, you are
loyal in marriage. Better you cultivate a good habit of proclaiming
your husband's fine qualities to his and your friends, in order to
make him happy you should also learn to forgive and forget as your
husband cannot harbor any ill feeling or hatred. Your love for
money is as large as the skill to spend it. You cannot save. You have
a big heart, cheerful face end a spirit full of confidence. You will be
upright, modest and chaste.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Virgo:

Male : You have your own ideals. It is always difficult to find
one suiting to your taste. Therefore, there is long delay in selecting
one to measure up to your ideals. You want everything to be perfect
as for as you are concerned. Therefore, it is always possible that in
the first few cases, you will be disappointed. Whenever you desire to
make a selection you give more value to the intelligence of the
person than to the sexual side and romance. You are a little shy and
so you do not give expression to your affection. Do not be touchy ;
cultivate to give expression to your love. You will not stand any
criticism ; you demand good understanding but your temperament is
to find fault with others. This must be given up. Just like you want
others to appreciate your assistance and also intelligence so also
whomsoever you love (whether intelligent or not), you have to
admire her beauty (whether handsome or not), etc, and also give
expression to your pleasure in her company. One step more you can
go, you can make her feel that you are depressed and inactive in her
absence you are rarely passionate. You should keep your partner
cheerful, by your talk at the least and also fetch her such books to
satisfy herself by reading. Your married life will be more on
partnership basis. That is why
=== PAGE 0167 ===
163

many postpone their time of marriage and prefer to be a bachelor
long period ; another reason is that you want to be very studious and
do research work in a peaceful atmosphere ; but when once you get
married, you provide everything for the wife and to other members
of the family.

Female: You will be able to understand your husband properly
and conduct yourself wisely, giving every encouragement to him,
whenever he needs it. You are very adjusting. You will be a dutiful
wife making the family life happy. You may be peevish and
occasionally mean. You preach thrifty (sparing) to your husband and
gradually he becomes economical within the few years after
marriage. Your idea of marriage is legal partnership. That you
should live in a business like way. You will run the home in a very
regular routine manner without yourself wasting anything nor
allowing others to waste, You do your duties quickly and most
satisfactorily. You will not be able to please your husband in
spiritual life, and also in keeping pleasant company. You consider
that sex is mean, base and one day or the other troublesome.
Therefore, this frame of mind is to be modified. You must fall in
love with a person of your own choice ; then sex is one of the
obligations. You do with no emotion there can be no exciting
romance. You rarely relish him to touch you, even casually ; you are
generally much regarded than liked.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Libra :

Male: You are the roost lovable person in sex life. You
are an expert in all love affairs. By your sincere love and beauty to
capture, your partner beside your dress, passion, pleasant perfumery
and sweet smile, it is your beauty which entices. Your passion
grows strongly and also dies quickly. You enjoy immensely in the
company of opposite sex. You find pleasure in good discussion.
You can put forth your argument with clear vision and you are a
pleasant conversationalist. You are cheerful, happy passionate and
adjusting. You accommodate to a good extent, you provide the
family with all necessities,
=== PAGE 0168 ===
164

comforts, luxuries and conveniences. You are very passionate and
while expressing your love you reach the greatest height. You will
feel very much disappointed if by chance response is not to that
extent you expect. Whatever disagreement or dissatisfaction may
be, you do not seek for divorce but somehow you try to adjust.

Female : You marry early in your life. You try to prefer the
tradition. You are happy both at home and also in social life. Your
standard of living will be high but you may not have a partner who
can satisfy you. You are tactful and wise; you avoid hot discussion,
you do not rub on the wrong side. You love and adore your partner
and try to lead a luxurious life maintaining peace. You are ready to
let the male do all the uncommon and disagreeable ones. You like to
do such act and will never fail to thank him with a flush and smile.
You are broadminded and cooperative. Your senses are always alert,
energetic and understand your husband's needs. You can be pleased
by flattery which is your weakness. You feel very happy when you
are assured that you are the most beautiful. If your husband can
understand you and keep you cheerful, you will richly reward him
by intimacy.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Scorpio

Male : You have complex moods; yet you are dynamic and
energetic in romance and love affairs. You cannot have a
pleasant and smooth life with the opposite sex, unless you are
sympathetic and your affection is steady. If your partner
appreciates you and speaks high of you, you consider that this
world is really a Heaven to you ; but if she passes any criticism
and disapproves your action you are depressed, disgusted,
dejected, down-cast and broken down. Generally you give all
comforts to your partner and try to keep her in good spirits.
You expect demonstrations of affection from your wife. This is a bit
too much as after all, she is a lady. Mostly you are highly sexed than
people born in other sign. So you desire to have and satisfy yourself
with the meanest type of all activities
=== PAGE 0169 ===
165

towards sexual side. There is one great good quality in you. You do
not see any other girl except your wife. You are either a gentleman
or a demon to your wife ; this depends upon her response and
reciprocal action. You can indulge in prolonged periods of sexual
excess, which would tell upon your health physically, mentally and
emotionally. You should not be arrogant and also violent. You
generally hit back hard and sting virulently, when provoked. You
will prove to be an opportunist sexually, and romantically, so, before
marriage you make some enemies.

Female: You enjoy your life if your partner show equally
genuine affection and deep love. If you have a scorpio born as your
husband, you will be fully satisfied; then both of you know how to
dance and adjust; if there is any disharmony among you it will not be
made known to outsiders. You can more for honour and family
prestige. You, no doubt, work very hard. You are really true. But you
suddenly lose your temper and loudly retort without any
consideration for the position of the husband. Love for you is your
life force. You think that you live only for that. You despise a man
who is un-masculine. You fade away if your husband is not loyal and
you feel that you are leading a life in the hell. You are rarely
dominated by your husband. You make all efforts to further your
personal ambition and try to improve yourself in every way. You
take intertest in the success of your partner.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Sagittarius:

Male: Generally you lose your temper quickly and you repent
for it immediately. There can be now and then some rupture between
you and your wife ; if your wise is wife, she can understand you
properly ; conduct herself tactfully so that both of you can lead a
pleasant married life. As you are very much interested in games,
sports, societies and clubs and you spend much time in such
activities, it is likely that your wife mistakes you and concludes that
the family life is not so important to you as the entertainments.
Unless your wife is
=== PAGE 0170 ===
166

broadminded, adjusting and accommodative, there can be
misunderstanding, though you are a person of integrity and
morals.

Love is also a pleasant game to you. You consider the sex as a
very small matter. You will never utter a lie in love affairs. If by
chance you develop some fancy towards another girl you will
straightaway inform.

Anyhow you will look after your wife with care. You do not
prevent her from taking part in any social activity. You will treat
your wife as a good sport and you expect her to be reasonable and
understand you properly. Whenever you are seen with other girls
she should take that it is nothing but friendship and that there is no
physical involvement.

You are frank and honest. You are not capable of flattering
your wife and thereby cheering her up. But you are dutiful and sex
becomes a part of your routine as a husband.

Female : You are deep and passionate. You have very in common
with the male counter part. You do not demand anything in love or
sex. So also, you expect that the husband should not demand
anything. You take part in women's club. You are devoted to your
pets at home. You have the courage and ambition ; so you prefer to
drive the car and to dominate. You can have early marriage. You are
fond of real work and outdoor activities. You prefer to be carrier
woman. You are humorous and versatile. Main defect in you is that
you are always curious about others affairs. You never suggest
anything to your husband unless you are asked for, but you try to
help him in all matters. You will be calm, competent and considerate
whenever your husband is wrong. You politely bring the mistake to
his notice and do it with all humility. You offer him advice in the
last. Your husband will consider that he is very lucky to have married
you. So you are happy. You are warm and you give much freedom to
your husband. You also expect the same from him. You cannot
tolerate any one restricting your activity ; then you will rebel. If you
feel that you are not getting that treatment which you deserve you
lose your temper, even though you do not break with your husband,
you just continue to live with him dissatisfied.
=== PAGE 0171 ===
167

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Capricorn:

Male: You may have affection but you do not give expression
to it. You are not fit for romance, dance, etc. You are never
emotional. You are very slow and cautious whenever you approach
tbe other sex. You are never bold or rash. Further, in love affairs
you never take tbe initiative. You always ask the other party
tactfully attain her consent then only you will start proceeding
further. You will also realise that the other sex gets worried because
of your hesitancy, therefore you take a long time to choose a
partner. Your sense of duty exceeds your ability to express real
love. You cannot be regarded as a warm affectionate person. You
will have opportunity to enjoy voluptuous females. You are fond of
the most erotic forms of love making. Generally you become
enchanted with much younger girls. You are delighted to have such
a young wife ; you will promise anything to her. You may have
occasionally love affairs You expect affection and approbation from
your wife. You remain loyal if you understand that she is very much
devoted to you. If she fails to satisfy you and there is another girl
tempting you, then you will err. You have strong appetite towards
other sex. It is only she who can put you at ease by making you
slowly understand that after all sex activities are natural ones. If you
do not find satisfaction with anybody, you satisfy yourself.

Female: You are of totally different type. You remain to be
devoted house keeper. You dedicate yourself to the comfort of your
husband and children. You can be a demonstrator for dance, yoga,
love etc. You are ambitious and clever, so you restrict the number of
members of the family by birth of children. You adopt family
planning. You know the difficulty of finance. You never gamble; nor
you take any risk. You can cut down the expenses to the bear
minimum. You enjoy harmonious and contented life, unless you
marry a Scorpion born, you cannot fulfill your high sexual need. The
next best would be Pisces born. You are deeply interested in all
aspects of sex but you try to put on a show that you are indifferent.
You do not give expression to it, nor make any one understand that
you are
=== PAGE 0172 ===
168

interested in sexual pleasure. If one understands you and satisfies
you in love affairs you will depend completely upon that person. He
will win you outright. Never you are in haste but slowly and steadily
you make the friendship. You will appear to be reserved, but it is
only due to the fear of ridicule. You never entertain hopes as you are
not optimistic. Unless things happen you never believe and have
faith in anything. You have that patience and tolerance needed to
come out successful as there may be delay and also obstacles.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN

Aquarius:

Male : You are intelligent and you prefer educated and
equally intelligent partner. You are unassuming. You have
strong attachment and a permanent one. You move with everybody
very freely and you always prefer such a girl who is equally social,
shrewd and studious. If you find that she does not come up to the
standard you expect, then without even informing the part, you will
try to make another choice. You never give expression to your love
nor can you satisfy one whom you love, as the partner will be more
passionate. You will be law abiding, true and honest. You are noble
and magnanimous. If you realise that your partner expects
something more from you, you simply sympathise with her. Nobody
can fool you by flattery because you can find the motive of such
people. You have your own individuality and mannerism. You
follow your own principles. You will go ahead to do anything for
your partner if it is within your bounds. You have to avoid solitude
and never be worried or gloomy ; also do not be a pessimist. Enter
into marriage with full understanding and commitment. As there are
chances for being misunderstood, it is likely that your partner may
let you down. Do not give room for such undesirable event. You
need every encouragement. If she does encourage you, then you are
the best husband. You will take up any responsibility boldly but yet
you do not want to have a big family. You are more attached to your
children than any other rasi (sign) born. You never hesitate but
straightaway accept that girl the moment you find
=== PAGE 0173 ===
169

her suitable. You will straightaway tell her because you do not
observe decency or sentiments.

Female: We find two extremes in the girls born in Aquarius;
one will be very kind, modest and polite. The other is nothing but a
devil in sexual experience. If you get a proper person you feel
extremely happy. You need such. You are adaptable and
affectionate. You love people. If by chance anybody tries to have
you, you cannot exercise your will power, but due to your weakness
you yield. If you find that any injustice is done to you, you rebel.
You can have very happy married life, If your husband is equally
learned and intelligent. If you by chance have a wrong mate, it will
create a vital problem which you have to endure for your life time.
You never rush to divorce or any other undesirable complications.
You try to maintain the prestige of the family by your patience and
make efforts to improve the existing condition.

IF THE SUBLORD OF THE 5th CUSP IS IN PISCES

Male : You are very emotional and also sentimental. You try to
have a beautiful and intelligent wife who develops taste in fine arts.
You want only broad-minded partners and you hate if your wife is
niggardly (punny- mean) ; you always entertain some suspicion
about your partner and occasionally you are jealous of her. It is the
duty of your wife to understand your nature and try to give
expression to her sincere love to you. She should flatter you to your
satisfaction.

It is always advisable that you select your wife who is not free
with everybody. Otherwise, you keep your love in suspense due to
suspicion. Your temperament is also dull; during some moments you
are warm ; in some moments you are reluctant Some days, you
admire and adore her. You are amorous and affectionate. Generally
you are kind, sympathetic and loyal. You are normally good ; but
occasionally moody. Throughout your life you will be attracted by
the romantic side. If your wife is in any trouble, at a moment's call
you lend your assistance. You do not think of doing harm, not that
you are incapable but you consider It to be a sin. It is a problem to
your wife to judge you as she will find contradictions in your nature.
You have to
=== PAGE 0174 ===
170

avoid contemplating and dreaming always. You should avoid
developing likes and dislikes. You will do all you can to maintain
your family in a high standard to give absolute satisfaction to your
mate and children.

Female : There are a few varieties of ladies born in this sign.
You prefer to live in simplicity. You take no pleasure in any body's
company. But you prefer to have a pet like a cat. You are
philosophical. Somehow inferiority complex develops in you.
Therefore, you select a husband who will be of great assistance to
fight against your inferiority complex. He should bring out your best
qualities and also express his love to you. Some of Pisces born will
play dual part. If the sexual urge is not satisfied by your husband you
will find some one who is compatible to the physical need. For some
of you there will be lot of troubles. You will have trials and
tribulations and you become depressed and pessimistic ; a few of you
will try to have a new life with foreigners in another country. And
they will be happy through some mysterious ways as you are very
passionate. A few of you will conduct like a rat in the sinking ship. If
you find that the partner is not up to the mark you will desert him
especially when he is in difficulty. Some of you are prepared to
sacrifice and forget your personal comforts if you find that the
partner is devoted to you and completely depends upon you for
peace and pleasure. You should cultivate the habit of keeping many
matters within yourself. You should not confide anything with
anybody. There is every likelihood of yourself being betrayed. Do
not suspect your husband.

LETTER TO THE AUTHOR

Dear Professor Krishnamurti,

Just a few lines to tell you, you are quiet marvelous , Just like
you told me, my friend called me again! I could not believe it when
I heard his voice out the telephone, because I had not heard from
him in many months. But you told me very correctly.

Yours sincerely,
W.E.
Austria.
25-11-69
=== PAGE 0175 ===
171

CAN I MARRY ONE WHOM I LOVE?

Love before marriage is likely Heavenly Bliss, why? The
hopes, the dreams, the imagination, the pleasant feeling, the
company before marriage, (within mind either to marry or to satisfy
one self for a short period) may be classified as love. Always the
expectation gives greater satisfaction than the actual attainment of
one's aim. Love is to be judged from the sublord of the house and
the significators of the 5th house. There may be, say, half a dozen
girls whom a person may love. Yet that particular person who is
born with such ruling planets which are the significators of the
houses 2, 7 and 11 of the other will marry her or him. But if the
ruling planets at the moment of the birth of the person whom one
loves happen to be the significator of the houses 1, 6, 11, he or she
will disappoint her or him. Therefore, you have to judge your
horoscope and find out the other's birth time tactfully. One can get
such information from the other only after having moved for some
period. It does not matter. Before ones gets spoiled if one gets the
horoscope and the Astrologer following K.P. judges and predicts
that the person whom one loves will be true, one can continue go-
ahead till the date of marriage. But if the K.P. follower were to say
that marriage will not take place but from a particular time the gap
will widen day by day after a particular day, it will surely happen in
the same manner and better to remain unspoiled after having
understood the other. Nobody can change the fate. Even after being
spoiled, one may consult, at that time the Astrologer's prediction
must be given weight.

WILL MY LOVE AFFAIRS MATERIALISE?

A handsome young man in love with a girl desires to know
if his romantic ventures would lead him to the aromatic atmosphere
of a marriage pandal. He furmishes No. 78 for analysis by
Krishnamurti Padhdhati.

This question is answered at Lat. 16°31' N and Long. 80°
39'E on 17th August, 1969 at 7-40 P.M, I.S.T.

Since the number given is 78, it follows that the
commencement of the 78th sub is the ascendant 1.e.. Cancer 21°
23'10",
=== PAGE 0176 ===
172

Adding Krishnamurti ayanamsa for 1969 to this we see that the
tropical ascendant is Leo 14°53'20". The other sayana cusps are
obtained from Raphael's Table's of houses as usual. The chart below
shows the complete picture of the nirayana horary Zodiac.

Nirayana Horary Chart

Xl
236! 22°19'
IX 19°19' Sat. 15°36 XT 22°19"
X 21°19! Ven. 23°11
Rahu 29°12'
No. 78 ASC-
VHI 19°19' Date 17-8-1969 0229 0N
Time 7-40 P.M. 21°33'20
1.S.T.)
Sun 1°10"
i 033° II 19°19"
VH 21°33' Latitude 16°33'N 7 as
Longitude 80°39'E Merc 23°34
Ket 29°12'
V 22°19' Ur. 8°37!
V1 22°19' Mars 18°8' IV 21°19! wp. re
Neptune 9°19
2°38 Moon 21°7'

Balance of Moon Dasa : 1 Y;7M;28D.
Rahu represents .. Saturn
Kethu represents ... Mercury

Planet & Bhava Star Lord Sub Lord

Sun (1) Kethu Venus
Moon (3) Moon Venus
Mars (4) Mercury Mercury
Mercury (2) Venus Saturn
Jupiter (2) Moon Rahu
Venus (12) Jupiter Saturn
Saturn (9) Venus Sun
Rahu (8) Jupiter Sun

Kethu (2) Sun Mars
=== PAGE 0177 ===
173

Conjunctions

(7) Mercury-Kethu

(11) +Jupiter—Uranus.

Analysis: Moon in 3 in his own star and sub of Venus who
is a significator for houses 2, 7 and 11 shows that the question
relates to marriage. Venus sub shows it is a love affair.

Since the question relates to marriage, examine the sub lord of
the 7th cusp. It is seen that Venus is the sublord of the 7th house.

Now, Venus is in 12 in the star of Jupiter in 2 and sub of
Saturn in 9. Jupiter owns houses 6 and 9. Saturn rules houses 7 and
8. So, according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, we should not hastily
declare that Venus in 12 is bad. Actually, be signifies houses 2, 9, 7,
6, 8 in order of strength. Also, Venus owns house 11 and is posited
in 12.

Hence even though matters appear unfavourable still Venus
bring out success.

Significators for Marriage:
Houses 2, 7 and 11 stand for marriage.

Mercury, Kethu and Jupiter are in 2. Mars is in the star
and sub of Mercury. Sun is in the star of Kethu. Venus and
Rahu are in the star of Jupiter. Hence, Mars, Sun, Venus and Rahu
signify house 2.

7th house is vacant. It is ruled by Saturn. Mercury and Venus
are in Saturn sub. 11th house is vacant. Its lord is Venus Mercury
and Saturn are in Venus star. Sun and Moon are in Venus sub.

At the time of analysis, the ruling planets are :

Lord of Day : Sunday ruled by sun.
Lord of Star ; Moon
=== PAGE 0178 ===
174

Lord of Moon Sign: Virgo- Mercury.
Lord of Ascendant; Aquarius- Saturn.

Therefore, the significators for marriage are Sun, Moon,
Mercury and Saturn.

Rahu is in Saturn's sign and Kethu is conjoined with Mercury,
We therefore find that Rahu, Kethu, Sun and Moon will bless the
querist with marriage.

At present, Moon Dasa Yenus Bhukti is running. Sun bhukti
commences on 15-10-1969, Rahu anthra runs between 20-11-1970
and 17-12-1970. Sun transits Kethu star between 16th and 28th of
December, 1970. Since Rahu Anthra ends on 17th itself, tbe
marriage will come off on 16-12-1973.

WIFE BRINGS LUCK

"Sir, my wife has brought me luck, the moment the betrothal
took place. I was promoted on 9-4-1964 ; my wedding came off on
14-6-1964"

"As I always try to see that the couple lead a happy and
harmonious life, if anyone were to say that his wife brought him
luck, I used to say "True". But if anybody were to pass a remark,
Sir, I got married and in a few days I lost my job, my wife brought
me misfortune, then I used to contradict and convince him by
saying, "Hello! Before you got into service, the date of entry into
service, the duration of your service In that department, the day of
resignation or retrenchment, then the day of getting into second
service are all predicted. Tne date of betrothal, the date of marriage,
etc. also was mentioned- In some cases, the time of marriage agrees
with the time of losing a job. So, it is not wise to attribute success or
failure in one's life to the fortune or misfortune of one's wife."

Both have to happen according to one's karma which can be
read by an astrologer. The person Is happy since betrothal itself
brought him promotion. His horoscope is as follows : V
=== PAGE 0179 ===
Wa)

IIT 12-33
Sat 12-15 | 1716-33 | Ven. 19-30 | IV 10-33
Asc. 11-54 Ketu 20-04
Sun 3-44
X11 3.33 19-7-1937 V 6-33
Mercury .
16-7
11-5 P.M.
18-55'N 72-54'E
XI 6-33 VI 3-33
-03. | Mars 29-50
Jup. 28-56" | Moon Zt jars
ahu 24- VII 11-54

X 10-33 1TX = 12-33‘ | VIII 16-33

Krishnamurti Ayanamsa 22-53'

Mercury Dasa balance
11 Years-6 Months 13 Days

At the time of marriage and at the time of promotion he
was enjoying Venus Dasa Rahu Bhukti Saturn Anthra.

Krishnamurti Padhdhati says : a) for marriage judge houses 2, 7
and 11 and (b) for promotion consider house 2, 6, 10 and 11.

Let us judge :

Second house is vacant: Owner is Mars ; Mrigasira, Chitra and
Dhanishta are governed by Mars. No planet is deposited in any of
the three constellations. So Mars is the strongest Significator of
second house.

Rahu, which is in Scorpio, represents Mars, the owner of
Scorpio. So, Rahu acts as a representative of Mars. Rahu, the node,
is stronger than Mars- No planet is in Rahu«s constellations.
=== PAGE 0180 ===
176

Seventh house is vacant: Owner is Mercury. Rahu and
Moon are in the constellations of owner of 7.

Eleventh house is vacant : Owner is Saturn. Sun and Mercury
are in Saturn's star.

Tenth house is owned and occupied by Jupiter. Mars alone
is in Jupiter star. Rahu represents Mars.

Therefore for 2, 7 and 11 houses Mars, Rahu, Moon,
Mercury, Saturn and Sun are the significators.

For 2, 10 and 11 houses Mars, Rahu, Jupiter and Saturn
are the significators.

Venus receives aspect from not only lord of 2 and significator
of 10, Mars, but also lord of II, Saturn. Hence Venus is connected
with 2, 10 and 11.

hi this case Venus Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Saturn Anthra gave
both the results.

They indicate : They gave.

Krishnamurti Padhdhati confirms.

As per Western System, by transit, on the day of marriage,
Mars squared Sun ;

As per Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Sun transited in Mercury sign
Mars star Mercury sub (one is lord of 7, the other lord of 2. Rahu
was transiting in Mercury sign Rahu star Jupiter sub : Venus was in
Mercury sign Rahu star Jupiter sub. (Venus and Rahu conjoin,
dasanatha and bhuktinatha.)

Saturn was in Jupiter sign Saturn star Venus sub.

Krishnamurti Padhdhati agrees in fall.

Post-mortem alone will correct one. Ignorant people may say
"What is the use of post-mortem ?" Such people do not want to keep
a record of success and failure in their attempts and try to improve
at all or learn improved methods. Pen and Paper are available ;
anything can be written by such people.
=== PAGE 0181 ===
177

WIL MY SON-IN-LAW CONTRIBUTE PEACE TO ME AND
PLEASURE TO MY DAUGHTER ?

Son-in-law means, he is the bridegroom who has married the
bride, daughter of the gentleman A, and A's wife B- Therefore, in
both the horoscope of A and B which are correctly erected
according to Krishnamurti's method we have to find out whether the
sublord of the 11th Cusp in each horoscope of the parents of the girl
happens to be the significator of 1 and 5. If so, he will contribute to
peace of mind But if the sublord of the 11th Cusp himself or the
lord of the constellation in which the sublord was deposited
happens to be the significator of 6 or 12 then there can be no peace
of mind at all.

Again one should note that one may have 3, 4, 5, son-in-laws and a
few will be very friendly and the other few inimical. So, in that case
how can we generalise the rule ? So the correct method of finding out
is as follows. Note down the sublord of of the 11 th and also the lord
of the constellation in which the sublord is posited. If the significators
of the 11th house and these planets happen to be the ruling planets at
the moment of the birth of the son-in-laws, those son-in-laws will be
friendly ; but if the sublord of the 6th Cusp himself or the lord of the
constellation in which the sublord of the6th happens to be the
Significator of 6, 8, and 12 and not at all connected with houses 1, 5
and 11, they cannot be friendly. If these significators happen to be the
ruling planets at the moment of the birth of the son-in- laws they will
always cause worry and trouble. In some families you could have
heard that for some years the son-in-laws happened to be bitter
enemies and later became slaves. And in some families very friendly
to start with and later became enemies

Therefore, whenever the parents run good time ruled by the
planets who are the significators of the houses 1. 5, 11, during those
periods they are friendly and at the time when one runs the period of
the significators of 6 and 1; even that particular son-in-law whose
ruling planet at the time of birth happen to be the lords of the period
running, then there will be enmity.
=== PAGE 0182 ===
178

IS SECOND MARMAGE PROMISED ?

(Few Planets may be in the same Star : note how the sub
indicates the truth)

"Please come in," said I when a person just peeped into
my chambers.

"Can I do anything for you, please?"

"Today exactly one year has passed, I lost my wife last year on
the 29th September. She has left two children to my care and passed
away. I want to know whether I will marry again and if so when."

"When were you first married ?"

"In 1962 on May 21st."

"Have you brought your horoscope?"

"Yes, I have erected a chart according to your instructions."

"Which Ayanamsa have you used ?"

"Only yours."

"Please let me verify, after noting the time now."

"Now it is 10-52 A.M., Sir."

"So the lagna for this moment is 12 degrees in Scorpio It is
Monday; star Bharani; Rasi Mesha. Hence Kuja (Mars), Sani
(Saturn), Chandra (Mars) and Sukra (Venus) are the ruling planets.
Let me see whether these agree with your chart."

He hands over the chart prepared by him.

"Look ! Actually your lagna is in the same position. You are

born at 12-09 P.M. on 28-8-1935 at 20°28' North Latitude 85°54',
East Longitude.
=== PAGE 0183 ===
179

The horoscope is as follows

een VIII 11-44
12-33 .
V 18-41 VII 11-59
V: 16-44 Kethu 26-43
IV 16-44
Sani (R) IX 13-44
14-12
RASI Chand. 2-51
Sun 11-11
X 16-44
Ill 13-44 Nep. 21.6
Bud. 27-28
Sun-R 27-53

Rahu 26-43 | Lagna 11-59] Kuja 22-34
Guru 23-46
fortuna 3-27 | XII 16-44 X1 18-44
TI 11-44

Kethu Dasa (according to Vimshottari Dasa)
Balance—S years, 9 months, | day.

"Sun Dasa Rahu Bhukti operated between 25-4-1962 and
19-3-1963; Chandra Dasa Rahu Bhukti operated between 1-8-1968
and 1-2-1970. Note that Rahu gave you marriage in Surya Dasa and
took away your wife during the Chandra Dasa.

"How is it ?"

"Rahu is situated in the second bhava (house). It is to represent
Guru who is lord of 2 and 5. The 2nd house indicates about family
members. The 11th house shows additions to the family ties. The 7th
indicates marriage. Therefore the significators are Rahu, Sani, in
Rahu constellation, Kethu in the constellation of Guru who is lord of
2, and similarly Kuja (Mars) and Guru in the constellation of lord of
2. No planet occupies the 7th house. Sukra is its lord and no planet is
posited in any of the three stars ruled by Sukra. The 11th house is
unoccupied, it is owned by Budha. Kethu, a node, is situated in
Mithuna governed by Budha, lord of 11. Only Sun and the Moon are
in Kethu's constellation.
=== PAGE 0184 ===
180

"When Surya and Chandra are both in the same
constellation, how is it that in Surya Dasa I got married and
in Moon (Chandra) Dasa I lost my wife?"

"My friend, it is only Krishnamurti Padhdhati which can clearly
explain such an event. The traditional methods of astrology have no
answer. The constellation, Makha, is governed by Kethu which
indicates, among other things, 11th house results though occupying
the other sign of Budha which owns the 11th house also. So planets
in Makha constellation have connection with the 11th house affairs
If the planet in Makha, lord of which is a significator of 11th house
affairs, occupies the sub of a planet connected with 6 or 10 or 12,
then separation or bereavement is to be predicted ; if it is in the sub
of the significator of 2, 7 or 11, it indicates wedding. Now, the Sun
in your horoscope was in the sub of Sani who is the significator of
the second house, it occupies the constellation of Rahu in 2. The 2nd
house, as already stated, is one of the houses to be judged for
marriage, and Sun in the sub of Sani thus gave marriage. Moon, on
the other hand, was in the sub of Sukra who is lord of 12. Sukra is in
the constellation of a planet posited in 9 owning the 10th and sub of
another planet in 9. Sukra, according to its lordship, can offer the
results of both the 7th and 12th houses. Hence, Moon connected with
11, 8 (kethu) and 12 (Sukra) gave death to wife "

The rule is this If a planet has to offer a desirable as well
as an undesirable result, it will offer both One result does not
cancel the other. Both the results will operate in due time. Rahu as
the occupant of the 2nd house has the power to offer marriage, but as
it is in the constellation of a planet owning house 10, it is also
capable of doing harm to the 11th house matters. Why ? Because the
10th house is the house of negotiation of the affairs influenced by
the 11th house. The eleventh connotes permanent tie of friendship
by marriage; the tenth shows breaking of this tie.

A bhukti lord which has to give both beneficial and harmful
results will confer benefit in the dasa of a planet which is
beneficially connected ; it will cause harm during the dasa of another
planet which has to bring about evil. The bhukti lord is a
=== PAGE 0185 ===
181

turncoat changing according to its master, the dasa lord. Thus, Rahu
cooperating with the dasa lord, Surya, gave marriage and in tbe dasa
of Chandra it caused you bereavement in the shape or your wife's
death.

"Sir, Chandra Dasa is now running. It will go on for
some years now. Does it mean, then, that I would not get
married during Chandra Dasa ?"

"No ; it does not mean that. Chandra is in the constellation of
Kethu in a dual sign and can give both the results. Kethu, as I said
already, is an agent of Budha, a dual planet, and so both the effects
(8 and 11) will be there. Further, the sub-lord Sukra also a
significator of the 7th house by owning that house. Hence in another
favourable bhukti the second marriage can come.

"Why do you say "can come"? Will it happen or not?"

"Note the sub-lord of the 7th cusp. If the lord of the sub or the
lord of the constellation in which the sub-lord is situated is in a dual
sign or happens to be a dual planet, then the second marriage is
promised. Rahu is the lord of the sub of the 7th cusp; it is in Dhanus
a dual sign. Hence two marriages are indicated. Further, Rahu is in
the 2nd house which rules the second wife.

"All right, Sir, when will the second marriage come off?"

"This should come off in the dasa of Chandra which is in the
constellation of Kethu acting as the agent of lord of 11 and sub of
Sukra owning the 4th house; in the bhukti of Guru, lord of 2
occupying its own constellation and sub of Sani, a significator of
2nd house by occupying Rahu's constellation ; and in the anthra of
Sani. It will be between 5-4-1970 and 21-6-1970. As at the moment
of judgment, Chandra is in Bharani star, when Surya transits in
Bharani and sub of Chandra, i.e. around 1-5-1970 the second
marriage will take place. May you lead a happy and peaceful life
and may He bless you all."
=== PAGE 0186 ===
182
TWO MARRIAGES : EXAMPLES

Horoscope of the native is as follows —

Rahu 24-43 Jupiter 18-44
X 8-32 XI 21-32
IX 16.32 et139.33
Mars 9-19
VIE 17-32 9-2-1931 Asc. 21-41
Sh-36-40 P.M.
LST.
Sun 26-59 25-27N 78-37E
VII 21-41 11732
Mercury 4-25
Sat. 25-27 Moon 24-51
VI 22-32 Ill 16-32
V2r32 Kethu 24-43
Venus 10-20 IV 18-32 | Kethu 24-

Jup. Dasa balance 10 yrs. 2 mth. 5 days.

For more then one marriage. Prof. Krishnamurti has said that
the only rule to be followed is to note the sub lord of the 6th cusp. If
the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is either Mercury or any other planet
occupying a dual sign or deposited in the constellation of a planet in
a dual sign, there will be more than one marriage.

All other rules given by other authors do not stand for test. I
wins are born. The lagna, the position of planets, etc. remain the
same. How is it one gets married more than once; the other marries
only once, again one has 2 marriages the other remains unmarried.
Traditional astrology is not helpful to find out; is not useful; I am in
possession of their chart. They are alive. Is there any rule, except the
most convincing and correct method discovered by myself.

[People, either incapable or jealous may say that K.P. is not a
discovery. It is already expounded by our sages. We request such
persons to give reference. We are repeatedly requesting.
=== PAGE 0187 ===
183

Why can't he come forward ? Is not such a statement in other
magazines, misleading the readers?]

Is there more than a marriage for this chart ? 7th cusp is
at 21°41' in Capricorn. It is in Moon constellation and sub
of Venus. Venus is in the dual sign, Sagittarius. Hence there
must be more than one marriage. For marriage, judge houses
2, 7 and 11, 2nd is unoccupied. Owner Sun: 7th is
occupied by Sun: Owner Saturn 11 th occupied by Jupiter:
Owner Venus. Mercury in the constellation of Sun means that
it is connected with marriage and married life. If Mercury is
in a favourable sub, it promises harmonious and happy life.
Otherwise Mercury in the sub of an adverse planets offers
adverse results in married life.

Mercury is in the sub of Saturn who is lord of 7 and 8 in 6, in
tbe sub of Mercury in 6. Mercury is not auspicious. Saturn offers
both good and bad. Union and separation, marriage and Divorce.

11th house occupied by Jupiter has Moon alone in its star.
Moon is in the sub of Mercury in 6. Moon brings separation. Moon
in the constellation of Jupiter in 11 indicates that Moon is connected
with 11th house matters. But whether Moon will be favourable or
not is to be decided by only the sublord. Here Moon connected with
11th house, being deposited in the sub of Mercury in 6 is evil for
marriage and married life. But, as regards profession it is good as
houses 6 and 11 denote promotion, success in competition, etc.

He got married during Saturn Dasa Sun Bhukti Saturn Anthra
on 28-10-51 morning and court passed divorce order during Saturn
Dasa Moon Bhukti Saturn Anthra on 16-1-53.

Second marriage came- When? Saturn is to give and take. It is
in Venus constellation and sub of the dual planet Mercury. So
Saturn Dasa itself gave second marriage.

Rahu In Jupiter's sign has to offer the 11th house results
also, other then the 6th and 9th house result.

Mercury is in 6. But it is in the constellation of planet
in 7. So it has to give 7th house results during Its period and sub-
period.
=== PAGE 0188 ===
184

Actually second marriage, represented mostly by second
house, took place during Saturn Dasa Rahu Bhukthi Mercury
Anthra. 7th house is for first marriage. Hence, marriage, divorce,
etc. of the first marriage is given by lord of 2 in the constellation of
lord of 11. Second marriage is given by Mercury in its sub-period as
it is in the constellation of lord of 2 deposited in 7 and sub of lord of
7.

CANT CHANGE FATE-MARRIAGES TWO

Once a friend of mine consulted me to find out whether a boy's
chart agreed with that of the girl. I cast the chart correctly and told
him that Neptune was exactly in the 7th cusp of the boy and he has
got the 7th cusp in Cancer on 16 degrees 56 minutes. I told him that
this boy would be having two wives and the first wife should be a
deceptive.

Since the girl was from a well known family, the boy's party
did not give weight to my word and celebrated the marriage with
that girl whom I said to be an unfortunate girl in having pleasure
through husband ; but I emphatically predicted that there would be
separation. The marriage went on in the morning hours. In Tamil
Nadu, marriage will be celebrated during day time in the presence of
relatives and friends. But actually they can contact themselves as
husband and wife on a later date which may be a few days or even a
few months later.

In this case marriage was celebrated in the morning and after
that, the girl's party took the girl to their residence whereas the boy's
party along with the boy reached their home, In the same week the
happy celebration for them had been arranged in the night. When
the boy was left alone with his wife in the closed bedroom, he found
out that the girl was suffering from some threatening loathsome and
contagious disease. Within a few minutes, he rushed out of the room
and straight came to me. He told shedding tears "Sir, what you told
will come true. My wife is suffering from such a disease, which is
covered by face-powder. I found patches here and there in her body.
I do not know what to do."

Later relevant certificates were obtained and he had the
divorce, On a later date he married another girl. If the
=== PAGE 0189 ===
185

sub lord of the second cusp were to be in the constellation of a
planet which is conjoined with Neptune such a disappointment and
deception would have repeated.' Luckily it is not shown. He lives
happily with his second wife.

NUMBER SHOWS THE TIME OF MARRIAGE

Sir, Your students say that predictions based on the
horoscope of a person may or may not be correct. All the
position of the 12 cusps depend on the moment of the birth
time taken And you decide whether there is fulfilment of one's
desire or not only fr om the sub lord of the cusps to be taken
for judgment. Hence, it seems you prefer Horary to Natal Chart "

"Yes, undoubtedly. I reiterate that Horary is the best to
get correct and amazing results."

For Horary am I to give a number ?
"Yes, please mention any number between | and 249.
It is numerology, Sir ?

No...Only ignorant people or incapable people may do a
propaganda that it is numerology. Not at all, it is pure, genuine
Astrology.

Let me give 74.

By 74 it is meant that Moon sign Cancer, Saturn star Pushya
and 14 degrees 53 minutes and 20 seconds ruled by Jupiter is the
lagna.

“Then we have to find out the cusps of the other houses."
“Will not the cusps vary from one place to the other ?"

"All places in the same latitude will have the same cusps even
though their longitude may be different. Therefore one is to note the
latitude of the place of judgment and not the place from which the
query is put"

So, we have to take the latitude of Delhi.

Yes. It is for Delhi we have to see. The latitude is 28°38'
North.

Which table of Houses do you recommend to refer ?
=== PAGE 0190 ===
186

Till the table of HOUSES prepared by me comes out,
one should refer only the Raphael's Table of Houses and not
anything else ; we should avoid calculations. Even he who
claims that he is good in Higher Mathematics failed in
Elementary Mathematics which I pointed out in my October
1967 issue. One may be M. A, yet he can err. Therefore as far
as possible avoid calculations when ready reference table is
there. So refer to Raphael's and when mine is released refer to
mine"

"Sir, the table of houses is Sayana position. Is it not ?"

AYes. So you have to note the ayanamsa on the day of
judgment.

Which ayanamsa am I to follow ?

Follow Krishnamurti's ayanamsa, Forget all others. When
Krishnamurti Ayanamsa is used and by using the subdivision of a
Constellation you come correct in minute details, it goes without
saying that the other ayanamsa are not to be followed, especially if
it varies by degrees ? Follow only mine.

What is the Ayanamsa now ?

23 degrees 70 minutes. So you add this figure to the position
you got for the number you gave, i.e., 74. hence add 23-20 to
14-53-20. Then the Sayana position of the lagna would be 8 degrees
13 mn. 20 secs. Turn over the page where the cusps of various
houses are given for Delhi Latitude. Then you will get that Virgo
9-32 is the second cusp; Libra 8-32 is the third cusp; fourth will be
10-32 Scorpio; fifth will be 13-32 Sagittarius ; sixth will be 15-32
Capricorn and the other 6 cusps are 180 degrees opposite to these.

Now we have got the Sayana position of the 12 cusps. Deduct
the Ayanamsa and convert them to Nirayana. The following figure
is the map for the query and hereafter we have to note down the
position of the planets.

For which time are we to note the position of the planets? If
you judge a chart immediately after calculations, then you have to
note the position of the planet at which you start the casting for
judgment. Cusps for the number can be done and
=== PAGE 0191 ===
187

kept ready as a ready reckoner. You may keep a ready reckoner for
any single locality for every number between | and 249. Noting the
position of tbe planets and in continuation to judge will be done at
any time. That time alone should be taken for the position of the
planets.

Then are we to note for 7-30 A.M. I.S.T. or are we to
convert the time to L.M.T.

"Hello ! It is only to find the cusps of the houses one is to find
out the time in L.M.T. But to calculate the position of the planets
you have to take the Indian Standard time. Because the position of
the planets are for 12 noon Greenwich. That is the same position for
5 -30 P.M- I.S.T. That is why I have given in my Ephemeris the
position of the planets for 5-30 P.M.- I could have given the position
of the planets for 12 noon I.S.T. But you cannot verify easily with
that of Western Ephemeris and confirm that mine is correct. So one
can work with confidence. Doubt should never be there. Therefore
you calculate and insert in the map after deducting ayanamsa from
the figures obtained. Then the following is the horoscope for
judgment.

Saturn
15-34
XI x120-12 | ST 33"
X 17-12 -
Lagna
Rahu 14-53-20
— Moon 25-19
VIII 16-12 Sun 27.00
II 16-12
VII 14-53-20 Merc. 16-34
Kethu
29-24
Mars 16-14

; Jup. 11-11
VI22-12 | y 20-12 IV 17-12 Ill 15-12

=== PAGE 0192 ===
187

Mercury Dasa at the moment of judgment balance S years,
11 months, 20 days. We have to presume that Mercury Dasa
Rahu Bhukti started on 30-1-68.

First Question :-Is marriage promised?

Note where the seventh cusp falls, it is in Capricorn at
14-53-20. It is Moon Star Jupiter sub. What does Jupiter signify?
Jupiter is occupying the second house promising increase in the
number of the members of the family by marriage. Hence marriage
is promised.

Second Question :—Who are the significators of the houses
2, 7, 11 which houses denote the wedding?

Occupant of the constellation of a planet is stronger than
the occupant. Occupant of a house is stronger than the lord of
the house. This is the main principle of mine.

Therefore find out the occupants of these houses and the
planets, if any deposited in the constellation of the occupant. Then
note down the occupant. Later find out the planets situated in the
constellation of the owners of the signs in which the cusps of the
houses 2, 7, 11 fall. Finally take the lords of the houses as well as
those planets conjoined with or aspected by the above significators.

Second house extends from 16-12 Leo to 15-12 Virgo (you
have to take cusp to cusp as a house and not like the traditional
astrologers, if you want to follow Krishnamurti Padhdhati)
Mercury, Kethu and Jupiter are the occupants of the 2nd house. No
planet is in Kethu constellation. Rahu is in Jupiter's star Moon, Sun
are in the star of Mercury.

Seventh house extends from 14-53-20 in Capricorn to 16-12
in Aquarius. No planet is found in this arc.

11th house extends from Taurus to 22-12 Gemini. Venus is in
this area and the three constellations of Venus are
=== PAGE 0193 ===
189

Bharani, P.P.Guni and Poorvashada. Saturn and Mercury are the
two planets in its star.

Therefore the strongest are Mercury, Rahu, Jupiter, Kethu,
Saturn, Venus, Moon and Sun.

Now the question arises how to select the strongest and the
fruitful ones.

I have discovered that the ruling planets at the moment of
judgment will be helpful and they are the real benefactors. Today it
is Wednesday governed by Mercury. The star is Ashlesha ruled by
Mercury. The sign is governed by Moon, Cancer. Lagna falls in
Leo. Kethu and Rahu are the two nodes which will represent
Mercury as Kethu is conjoined with Mercury and Rahu is aspected
by Mercury. I had said that Rahu or Kethu will give first of all the
results indicated by the planets with which they are conjoined or by
which they are aspected.

Hence include the two nodes. Reject Sun, take Kethu.
Then when will the marriage come up ?

Mercury Dasa Rahu Bhukti Kethu Anthra or Mercury Dasa
Rahu Bhukti Moon Anthra. Mercury Dasa Rahu Bhukti Kethu
Anthra is mostly over. Moon Anthra will start after 7 months 24
days, i.e. on 7th April, 1970. It will run for 2 months and 16 1/2
days. Now we have to see in which constellation and sub the
significators will be transiting. As Mercury and Moon are fast
moving, take Rahu- Rahu comes to its own constellation on 7th
February, 1970. Then it will be in Venus sub till 25th April, 1970.
Then it will be in Kethu sub which is also a strong significator.
Mercury will enter into Rohini star governed by Moon in Venus
sign. Hence the date of marriage will be on the day when Sun
transits in Venus sign, Moon star, Rahu sub, i.e., 25th May 1970

Now let us see what the horoscope indicates, according to
the time furnished by you.
=== PAGE 0194 ===
190
The horoscope is as follows : --

Sat 19-9
VIII 22-27 | 1X 22-27 |X 23-27 XI 23-27
VII 23-4 Jup. 1-9
Kethu
8.38 XII
Rahu
8-38
VI Lagna
23-04
Mer. 1833
Moon 29-42 11 22-27
Il 23-27 | Il 23-27 III 22-27. | Ven 22-40
Mars 26-24
Sun 29-59

Sun Dasa balance 4 years 7 months and 19 days.

From 12-7-69 Rahu Dasa Saturn Bhukti will operate.
Significators of 2,7 and 11 houses are :

Mercury, lord of 2 in 2 and no planet in its constellation.

No planet in 7 lord is Saturn. Kethu represents Saturn
Rahu is in Kethu star and Rahu is a significator.

No planet is in Saturn star.

11th house is occupied by exalted Jupiter. It is in its own
constellation. No other planet is in Jupiter's star. Hence Rahu,
Kethu, Sani, Jupiter are the significators. Now select the time of
marriage. Allow Rahu to transit in Saturn sign Rahu star. Then take
Kethu Anthra which commences after 3-10 of Saturn Bhukti was
over, i.e. 10 months 8 days after the commencement of Saturn
Bhukti. It is after 21-5-69. By horary we fixed 25-5-1970. As Kethu
sub period is to run for 2 months this will agree. The shokshma will
be the fag end of Kethu only.

"So "

So what! your parents can start negotiation in April 1970
and make arrangements etc., fixing choultry, etc., only then.
=== PAGE 0195 ===
191

DIVORCE

Divorce is a question which arises after one's marriage with the
other legally. The cause may be any or many. Anyhow unless there
is disagreement, disharmony and dissatisfaction among the couple,
divorce will not come up. Just like opinions differ, so also husband
and wife born in different families of different parents may not
agree. The traditional method of finding out dasa-porutham will in
no way, help the parents or the couple. Actually, if we note down the
percentage of the people leading happy, pleasant, smooth life with
wife with inseparable temperament, there are many who never
consulted any astrologer. It may be an arranged marriage or it may
be a love marriage. Consulting an astrologer, following traditional
system, does not guarantee smooth, pleasant, united life with wife
for a long number of years, bringing forth enough children to inherit
the estates of the parents. To my knowledge, at least 60 to 70
percentage of the couple who had got married, after consulting the
astrologers, who follow only traditional astrology, are fully
dissatisfied and they do not find pleasure in the company of each
other. In a few percentage, there is repulsion also, if the married life
what we want is attraction and not repulsion. If can astrologer can
change the fate of the couple, then Dasa-Porutham may he helpful
When the destiny is that they both must get married whether you
consult the astrologer or not, where there is Dasa-Porutham or not,
the marriage must take place and It does take place. When adverse
time starts, both of them disagree. This disagreement may end in
separation and the wife may be silent This separation may end in
violence : or this separation may be due to disease of either of the
party. Therefore, as rewards divorce is concerned, one should know
why they are destined to marry each other and then why they are
destined to get a divorce. K.P. explains these facts crystal clear.

Houses 2, 7 and 11 are to be judged, for union (marriage),
increase in the number of the members of the family by marriage and
also to keep permanent tie of friendship with partner in life. These
are judged from the houses 2, 7 and 11. But divorce is caused when
the significators of 2, 7 and It are also the significators of the houses
1, 6 or 6 and 10 or 6 and 7 or 10 and 7 and
=== PAGE 0196 ===
192

so on Therefore, the 12th house to the houses 2, 7, and 1 I are all
detrimental for smooth, pleasant family life with wife. Hence these
houses are to be judged and then only one has to declare the result
whether they will go for divorce. If the significators of 2, 7 or 11
happen to be the significators of 1,6 and 12, then, separation will
surely happen and then it may lead to divorce.

If separation is caused by the wife running away saying, that
she has no mind to stay with the husband, then in one's horoscope,
the significator of 7 will also be the significator of 6 and 9. If the
person does not like wife, and he goes away, then, we have to judge
the houses 3 and 12. 4th house is the place of residence. So 3rd is
Vyaya to it. Therefore, one will go away from his residence proceed
on a joumey and thereby get separated

REUNION Judge the houses 1, 5, 7 and 11.

DIVORCE
Example
The horoscopes of the couple who got married on 12-12-64
had divorce sanction on 27-11-67. Appeal is made on 13-8-68.

XII 25-55 II 0-30
Jup. 20-57 Ven- 7-24
Lagna
Kethu21-19 | Sat. 21-17 4-38 Moon 19-29
III 24-30
Merc. 1-44
Sun 16-25
XT 19-30 IV 19-30
Mars 25-45
2-8-1940
0-45 a.m.
Mc. 19-30 V 1920
IX 24-30
Rahu 21-19
VIII 0-30 | VIT 4-38 VL 2855

Rahu Dasa Balance 0 year 11 months 2 days.
=== PAGE 0197 ===
193

The dasa period at the time of marriage was Saturn Dasa Venus
Bbukti Sun Anthra; Divorce was sanctioned during Saturn Dasa Sun
Bhukti Jupiter Anthra on 27-11-67. Appeal is given on 13-8-68
during Saturn Dasa Moon Bhukti Mars Anthra.

For marriage, judge houses 2, 7 and 11. Venus and Moon are in
2: None in 7, Kethu is in 11. Mercury, Mars and Saturn rule the 2nd,
7th and 11th houses, Jupiter and Saturn are in the constellation of
Venus : Rahu is the constellation of Moon. No planet is in Mars star.
Sun is in the constellation of Saturn, lord of 11. Mars and Kethu are
in the star of Mercury.

(1) Sun in the star of Saturn can unite and can separate:
because, Saturn is lord of 11 and occupant of 12 ; 1
11h is for Union: 12th for separation.

(2) Moon is in the constellation of Rahu and sub of Mars.
Rahu is to give the results of the houses 2, 3, 5 and 6.
It also shows union and separation.

(3) Mars in the sub of Rahu gives ultimate separation.

(4) Mercury indicates separation as it is in the star of
occupant and owner of 12 and sub of Rahu.

(5) Jupiter in the star of Venus (union) and sub of Jupiter
in 12 shows legal separation.

(6) Venus in 2 in the constellation of Rahu and sub of Rahu
gives both.

(7) Saturn in Venus star (union) sub of Rahu, ultimate
separation as Rahu is to denote 6th house matter also.

(8) Rahu in Moon star Venus sub shows united married
life.

(9) Kethu in Mercury star Venus sub unites. Thus what
each planet can contribute is to be studied.

The day of marriage, was a Saturday : Moon in Saturn sign.
Lagna in Saturn sign, Sun star. Sun was in its own star : Saturn was
in the sign of lord of 11 and star of lord of 7. Jupiter was in Venus
star in sign of lord of 7. Venus owns only lagna and not 6; So also,
Mars owns only 7th and not 12th.
=== PAGE 0198 ===
194

[There is no Mars Dosha in this chart because it is in a movable
sign, it is debilitated ; conjoined with Mercury. Yet look at the fate.
Thus taking the position of Mars and offering predictions which
appear more like a curse is not correct. But take the planets situated
in the star or sub of Mars in 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 or 12. Then, that planet
tenanted in such a Mars' star will offer undesirable and disagreeable
results. |

Divorce was sanctioned on 27-11-67. Saturn Dasa Sun
Bhukti Jupiter Anthra.

Saturn acts as the planet in 12th Bhava : conjoined with Jupiter,
Judicial separation. Sun again offers the evil result through
Government Department Jupiter in 12 has given.

Appeal is filed on 13-8-68. Saturn Dasa Moon Bhukti Mars
Anthra. Generally, by nature Mercury denotes plurality, i.e., another
Court is also approached. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati,
planets deposited in the constellation of Mercury, or occupying
Mercury sign, Gemini or conjoined with or aspected by Mercury
will give, provided its sub-lord is connected with dual sign or
Mercury sign or star.

Mars in its Anthra gives courage : makes one take further Step:
fight and so on.

Hence during Mars Anthra appeal is made.

What will be the result ?

Note the sub-lord of the Dasanatha. If it denotes once for all
separation, then, according to tbe various Bhukties in that Dasa,
there will be alternative results good and bad, depending on the sub-
lord in which the lord of the Bhukti is deposited. If Bhukties are
ruled by A, B and C and they are deposited in beneficial subs (lord
of the sub contributing to the benefit of the native's desire) then, in
the Dasa of a planet which is the significator of both advantageous
and disadvantageous houses, then during the Bhukties of A, B and
C, the results will be favourable. If the sub-lords of the position
occupied by the Bhukti lords D E.F are unfavourable, during their
Bhukties, one has to expect untoward and undesirable results.
=== PAGE 0199 ===
195

If a particular house is unoccupied and the constellations
of the owner of the house is also unoccupied, then those planets
deposited in the sub of that planet, will offer the results.

If a particular result is indicated by a planet, then those
which are deposited in its constellations are connected with the
matters signified by that Bhava.

Here, Saturn is in Venus star. Venus is in 2. Hence Saturn is
connected with the members of the family. It does not mean only
increase of the members by marriage or birth of children. But it
must also show the decrease. Increase and decrease depend on the
Bhukties and Anthras in Saturn Dasa. In the same Dasa, one can get
married. He may get separated or either of them may pass away.
Hence Dasanatha has to offer both results as he will be the
significator of both.

Some may get married, in a Bhukti and in the same Bhukti one
may get divorced. Here, both Dasanatha and Bhuktinatha will be the
significators of marriage and also divorce. Some may get married in
the same Dasa, Bhukti and Anthra and live separately from the same
Anthra ; then. all these three planets are the significators of marriage
and also divorce. Marriage comes because of the lord of the
constellation. Separation comes due to the sub occupied by the
planet.

One may get married in A Dasa. B is for divorce. 'B' Bhukti
can operate during 'A' Dasa. Separation will not come. It will end in
misunderstanding as the Dasa lord is the most powerful
commander. No Bhukti lord can offer a result if Dasa lord does not
permit. If Dasa lord is not a significator of the result which Bhukti
lord is to give, Dasa lord, the final authority will not give the
ultimate result Planets from a Cabinet. The Prime Minister is the
Dasanatha. The Bhuktinathas are Cabinet Ministers The
Anthranathas are Deputy Ministers.

Therefore Note the 3 planets which will rule conjointly and
these must be connected with 6 and 11 houses.
=== PAGE 0200 ===
196

Jupiter, lord of 12 is in 12 : Mercury is deposited in Jupiter star.
Hence Mercury, Jupiter in 12 are for separation. Saturn, represents
11th and 12th.

Sun is in Saturn star, sub of Jupiter. Hence Sun must bring
about separation.

Rahu has to represent Mercury as it is in Mercury's sign. Rahu
in Moon constellation and Venus sub, according to its stellar
position, brings union. But, it bas the portfolio of Mercury also ;
hence, it will cause separation. Moon in Rahu star in Mercury sign
will bring about separation. The sub-lord Mars has no connection
with 2 or 7 or 11 : nor with 6 or 12. Hence, Mars is unconnected, In
that case, the Bhuktinatha gives the results during Jupiter sub period
in Moon Bhukti. The order will be issued on 1-2-69. The divorce
will stand.

As per transit,

(a) Sun will be in Saturn sign, Moon star and conjoin M.C. i.e.,
10th cusp

(b) Moon will be in Saturn star Moon sign

(c) Time of judgement Moon star Saturn sub i.e., Lagna
on that day will be at 16° Taurus

(d) According to Western System prediction lord of 7
Mars (Nirayana) squares its original position and
opposes both Jupiter and Saturn.

(e) Mercury will be in Saturn sign Moon star.

(f) Jupiter in Mercury sign Moon star.

(g) Venus in Jupiter sign Saturn star.

(h) Saturn will be in Jupiter sign Mercury star Jupiter sub.

(1) Rahu in Jupiter sign Saturn star.

Thus it can be seen that all planets vote for final divorce
from 1-2-69.
=== PAGE 0201 ===
197

HOROSCOPE OF THE WIFE
Rahu 4-32
Moon 22-44 VI 12-6 IX 12-15
VI 16-15 “© | VHT TIS | ars 22-35
Sat 26-27
V 16-15 Mc. 14-15
12 Midnight
Ven. 25-38
Sun 24-23 6/7-2-1946
Mercury XI 16-15
21-10
IV 14-15
Lagna 12-6
MN12-15 | yp ay-15 | Jup. 4-20 | XII 16-15
Kethu 4-32

Mercury Dasa Balance 9 yrs. 3 mts. 5 days. Married on
12-12-64. Yenus Dasa Venus Bhukli Saturn Anthra on a Saturday.
Divorce sanctioned on 27-11-67 during Venus Dasa Moon Bhukti
Kethu Anthra, appeal filed during Venus Dasa Mars Bhukti Rahu
Anthra.

2, 7, 11—for marriage :-Kethu in 2. Kethu alone in Kethu
Star . 7 owned by Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Sun and Venus in Mars star.
11 is vacant- owner Sun : No planet in Sun star. Planets connected
with 2, 7 and 11 are Kethu, Rahu, Jupiter, Sun and Venus. Saturn
conjoined with Mars, lord of 2 and 7 in the sub of node in 2. Hence
Venus Dasa Venus Bhukti, Saturn Anthra, gave marriage.

12-11-1967 date of Divorce, Venus Dasa Moon Bhukti
Mercery Anthra. Therefore Venus in the constellation of lord of 2
and 7 connected with marriage. Moon in the constellation of
Mercury in 4 and Mercury in the constellation of Moon in 6
(Mercury is lord of 12 and Moon in Mercury star gives separation).
Mercury in Moon star gives separation.

Appeal is filed during Mars Bhukti Jupiter Anthra Mars is in
the constellation of Jupiter in 12 (as the planet conjoined with Mars
gave marriage) and in Saturn sub. Here it can
=== PAGE 0202 ===
198

indicate divorce also. Gemini shows appeal, i.e., second hearing.

ResultA During Venus Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Mercury
Anthra Moon Shookshma divorce will be confirmed. It is in
February 1969

KIDNAPPING

In Hindu Traditional Astrology, it is believed that exalted
planets offer brilliant results and most desirable ones, causing the
so-called Raja Yogas. When such is the case, I am unable to
understand how majority of planets being exalted causing many
Raja Yogas found in Rama's chart contributed for the kidnapping of
Sita.

According to KRISHNAMURTI SYSTEM, the planets which
are exalted need not at all give advantageous results. They can do
harm. Everything depends upon the sub, occupied by a planet,
whether exalted or debilitated. The significators of the houses 3, 6, 7
and 9 indicate that one's partner will be kidnapped. If the same
person is to be kidnapped, in his or her horoscope the significators of
houses 1, 3, 9 and 12 must operate. These significators should not be
connected with 11th house. But if a particular planet is connected
with both, the kidnapping houses 1, 3, 9, 12 and also reunion house
the 11, then after being kidnapped, the person will be found and
there will be reunion. This also applies to people, who run away due
to fear during evacuation, like a refugee. In their cases also, one can
predict, whether the partner is alive and when they will reunite.

In 1951, one Kashmiri Brahmin dealing in woolen goods,
came to my house in the evening hours, and he narrated his plight.

He told that he and the members of his family were much
afraid of the situation in his land, and he thought that there would be
peace, law and order in India and he came to Amritsar; from there to
Delhi; from there to Calcutta and then to Avadi He saw with his
own eyes three bodies had been charred due to the fire in his house.
He was living with his wife and three daughters and he did not
know who was alive and which three of his kith and kin were burnt
to death.
=== PAGE 0203 ===
199

I immediately asked him to give a number and I took the
position of the planets for that moment and give the following
prediction : "Sir, the sub-lord of the 8th house clearly shows that
your wife will outlive you ; hence as long as you are alive, she must
be alive. Therefore, only your three daughters would have been lost
in such a mishap."

Then he asked me, when he would meet her or when she would
come to India, where he is, and so on. I replied that one will not be
knowing the whereabouts of the other till a particular day. And on
that day both of you will meet accidentally. And there will be
reunion.

Readers will be very much thrilled to read the following :
Mr. Punidhavel Mudaliar of Shanker Trading Company, I and about
a dozen dealers in Stock exchange were discussing about the
position of the market and traveling by the Electric train from
Madras Beach Station to Saidapet.

On that day around 5-30 P.M. his wife who had been following
the husband went after he had left each place to the various places
where he was ; (Amritsar, Delhi, Calcutta etc.) and atlast she came
to Avadi; she understood that he had shifted to Madras and when
she came to the room where he was staying, she learnt that he had
gone to his office and would be returning after 5-30 P.M. As she
could not control herself, she walked the distance of three furlongs
and in front of Flower Bazaar Police Station, Madras, she saw him
coming with a tiffin-box in his hand. She cried and immediately ran
to him and embraced him. She created a scene. It took sometime for
them to be normal. They visited my residence at 8 P.M.

They waited till 8-30 P.M. They told my wife that they
would come again the next day as it was getting late. They
came to Saidapet railway station and were facing the other side
to go to Madras Beach. When they were standing on the plat-form,
the train by which I and Mr. Punidavel Mudaliar of Shanker Trading
Company and others were traveling arrived and we got down. From
the back-side, I could recognise that Kashmirj Brahmin was
standing. So I loudly called him "Hello". That person turned, looked
at me and cried so loudly that anybody, within a furlong distance
could hear him.
=== PAGE 0204 ===
200

Like a log of wood, he fell at my feet. He got up and drew his wife
by her hand and introduced saying "This is my wife. What am I to
say? Are you a devil? How could you predict so correctly ? It seems
that my wife followed me all along and our three daughters were
burnt, she alone is alive. Exactly on the day you had predicted, as
you mentioned, we accidentally met on the road while walking in
opposite direction. He lifted me and kept me on the staircase in the
4th or 5th step and narrated the whole story to the public. More than
100 people, who got down from the train, all gathered together,
heard him and everybody admired.

This prediction was narrated by many for a long time and
whenever I travelled by train, or by bus, in those days, people used
to point me and talk about this matter. I followed only the rule, I
have given in my book.

REUNION WITH HUSBAND-DOMESTIC FACILITY

On 9-6-1966 at 12-05 P.M. a lady puts us a query :
Will I join my husband and have domestic facility ?

The following are the planetary positions :

Sun 24-54 Mercury

Sat. 5-27 Venus | Rahu 1-56] 9-28
Mars 14-38
Jup. 13-41
Moon
3-27
Lagna
24-10
Kethu

1-56

=== PAGE 0205 ===
201

The longitude of Moon is 3°27' in sign Aquarius. She is posited
in tbe constellation of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars and is in the sub of
Venus. Consequently the sub period of Venus in the major period of
Mars is in operation at the time of query.

7th house indicates husband, marital happiness and life with
legal husband. 2nd house indicates family and domestic facility.
11th house indicates reunion, cordial relations and permanent tie
with married partner.

Therefore for reunion with husband and perfect domestic
facility, consider houses 2, 7 and 11.

The significators are;

(1) Planets posited in the constellation of the occupants of
houses 2, 7 and 11.

(2) Occupants of houses 2, 7 and 11.

(3) Planets posited in the constellation of the lords of
houses 2, 7 and 11.

(4) Lords of houses 2, 7 and 11.

(5) Planets who are in conjunction with or aspected by
the significators.

(a) 2nd house is vacant

7th house is occupied by Saturn. Pushyam, Anuradha and
Uttarabhadra are ruled by Saturn. Saturn himself is posited in
Uttarabhadra. So Saturn is a significator.

(b) 2nd house is occupied by no planet 7th house is
occupied by Saturn. 11th house is vacant So
Saturn is a significator.

(c) 2nd lord is Mercury. 11th lord is also Mercury.
Mercury rules the constellations, Aslesha, Jyeshta and
Revathi. No planet is posited in any one of these
constellations- 7th lord is Saturn. Saturn himself is
posited in his own constellation. So Saturn is a
significator.
=== PAGE 0206 ===
202

(dq) Lord of 2 and 11 is Mercury. Lord of 7th house is
Saturn. Therefore Mercury and Saturn are
significators.

(e) Saturn aspects Rahu powerfully. Mercury is in
conjunction with Jupiter

Therefore the significators indicating reunion with husband
and domestic facility are Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter and Rahu.

The planetary period of Mars is in operation at the time of
query. It is to run up to 17-2-1968. Mars is not a significator
indicating reunion and domestic facility. He is posited in the
constellation Rohini, ruled by Moon and is in the sub of Jupiter.
Moon rules the 12th house indicating separation of husband and
Jupiter rules the house indicating sorrow due to husband. Therefore,
Mars will not contribute to the growth of cordial relations with the
husband. As Jupiter is also lord of 5th house, relations with the
husband will not be snapped.- There is also no danger to the life of
your husband as Jupiter holds the lordship of your
"Mangalyasthana" (8th house) and the 7th lord, Saturn is posited in
his own constellation, Uttrabhadra,

From 17-2-1968 onwards the planetary period of Rahu
commences. Can Rahu contribute to reunion and domestic facility ?

A planet offers the results of the lord of the constellation
in which it is posited. The affairs pertaining to the house over
which the lord of the constellation holds lordship will be
experienced by the native predominantly. The sub will indicate
the net result.

Rahu is posited in the constellation Krithika. Krithika is ruled
by Sun. And Sun holds the lordship of 1st house indicates honour,
dignity, glory, comfort and happiness.

Rahu is posited in the sub of Jupiter. Jupiter holds lordship of
5th house and 8th house. Sth house indicates recreation and
pleasure- 5th house is 11th (permanent tie) to the 7th
=== PAGE 0207 ===
203

house (husband) 8th house is your "Mangalyam" It is 2nd
house (comfort from family) to the 7th house (husband).

Therefore Rahu who is posited in the constellation of lord of
lst house and who is in the sub of lord of 5 and 8, is a strong
significator indicating reunion and domestic facility. You are
sure to meet and move with your marriage partner and will have
marital bliss and domestic comfort during the planetary period
of Rahu.

"Sir, the planetary period of Rahu runs for 18 years. If so,
when my husband will meet me and I will have the pleasure of
moving with him", asked the lady quite interestingly.

Madam !

What you told is correct. Rahu rules 18years. Naturally you are
interested to know which year, which month and which day you will
meet your husband and move with him with comfort and joy.

Our ancient sages have divided the planetary periods into
sub periods. Each such sub period rule certain period which runs
for a few years. Again each sub period is divided into sub
sub periods which runs only for a few months.

Planets posited favourably with the major lord will always
help, assist and cooperate with the major lord in giving the expected
result. Planets inharmoniously disposed with the major lord will
bring obstacles and cause delay.

Whether a planet is favourably placed or not, is to be
ascertained from the longitudinal distance between planets ; Saturn is
very favourably placed towards Rahu. Mercury is also favourably
placed towards Rahu.

The first sub period in the Rahu major period is Rahu sub
period itself which runs 2 years 8 months and 12 days. The sub
period of Rahu is again divided into sub sub (anthra) periods. The
first sub sub (Anthra) period in the sub period of Rahu
=== PAGE 0208 ===
204

belongs to Rahu himself which runs for 4 months, 75 days and
48 Ghatis from 17-1-1968.

Rahu is a strong significator. Therefore, it is during this period
i.e., between 17-2-1968 and 13-7-1968 you will meet your husband.

On what date 7

The ruling planets at the time of query are the ruling planets
at the time of fructification of the expected result. The week day the
query was put is Thursday. Thursday is ruled by Jupiter. The query
was put when Leo was rising in the east. Leo is ruled by Sun. The
Moon is in the constellation Avittam, in sign Aquarius at the time of
query. Avittam is ruled by Mars. Aquarius is ruled by Saturn.
Therefore the ruling planets at the time of query are Jupiter, Sun,
Mars and Saturn. The same planets will rule at the time of return of
your husband. The planetary period that will be ruling then will also
belong to these planets only.

The planetary period of Rahu is in operation. Rahu is a
shadowy planet. It reflects the results of the planets with whom it is
in association and also in aspect of. Rahu is in association with Sun
and Mars is aspected by Saturn. Therefore Rahu is to act as agent of
Sun, Mars and Saturn. Thus the lord of the planetary period has
reflected the ruling planets of the query, Sun, Mars and Saturn
leaving aside Jupiter. Therefore, the major period of Rahu, the sub
period of Rahu, the sub sub period of Rahu and the shookshma
period of Jupiter will offer the expected result, reunion and domestic
facility. It runs between 9-3-1968 and 29-3-1968. The luminaries are
the exciting planets Sun transits Poorvabhadra in sign Pisces
between 15th March and 17th March every year approximately. The
week day will be Thursday.

Therefore your husband will meet you on Thursday about
19th March, 1968 from which date onwards he will move with you
permanently bestowing on you marital happiness and domestic
facility.
=== PAGE 0209 ===
205
FAMILY LIFE OR SANYASI
What do you think of this boy ?

Will he have domestic life ? He has joined a Mutt./temple

Lagna 1-6
Jupiter Sat 7-50 Moon
13-25 Kethu 8-45 0-53
Uranus 9-1
7—12—1939
8-30 P.M. Merc. 7-51
Mars Sun 21-10
2-27 Ven. 21-39
Nept. 29-49

Rahu 8-45

Mars dasa balance 3 years 13 days.

The boy is born in Mesha-Aries Lagna. It is occupied by
debilitated Saturn and Gnanakaraka Kethu with perverted intelligent
planet Uranus. Lord of Lagna, the independent and fiery Mars is
exalted in Capricorn. Uranus and Mars are in the constellation of the
fiery planet Sun. Moon, which governs the mind, is also in Mars
constellation Mrigasira.

Therefore, he is a pucca Martian. Martians will be active and
ambitious, bold and impulsive. They will change their ideas and
hold their opinion tight and try to stick to the same till they find
reasons to give up the original and take another. They act first,
speak out next and think at the last.
=== PAGE 0210 ===
206

As immediately after his birth Saturn and Kethu rose in the
east, the modify the martian tendencies. Both Saturn and Kethu are
in the constellation Aswini, governed by Kethu. Therefore he would
prefer solitude, he will shun the society ; he will have the desire to
study philosophy, try to meditate, concentrate and thereby aim to
have the uplift of the soul. As lord of 10, he will do Karmayoga. As
lord of 11, Saturn blesses him so that he can have his desires
fulfilled. So planet in the constellation of Saturn will offer the
results indicated by Saturn. Only Jupiter is in Uthrapadra ruled by
Saturn. So during Jupiter Dasa Saturn Bhukti Moon Anthra he will
be detached from family ties : he will take the divine path: he will
go out of the house. Jupiter denotes direction N/E, he will proceed
to a place North East to that place where he is just before Moon
Anthra ; (Leaving the house is shown by the 3rd and 12th house).
Actually he went to an Ashram on 18-4-1964.

Houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate marriage. Rahu is in the seventh
house. Rahu alone is in its constellation.

11th houses is not occupied.

2nd and 7th houses are owned by Venus, Bharani,
Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada are under the control of Venus. Sun
and Venus are in : Pubba; Poorvapalguni.

11th houses is owned by Saturn. Jupiter alone is in the
constellation of Saturn, Hence Jupiter is another significator.
therefore Jupiter, Sun, Venus and Rahu are the significators.

The time of marriage will be Jupiter Dasa Venus Bhukti Rahu
Anthra Sun shookshma. Therefore in November 1969 when Sun
transits i,a Swathi star ruled by Rahu (in Libra sign governed by
Venus) he will get married.

When? in the mutt or at home. During Jupiter Dasa Venus
Bhukti Moon Anthra he will return home. (Moon in 3) During Rahu
Anthra, negotiation and celebration are promised.
=== PAGE 0211 ===
207

RETURN AND REUNION
When will my son return ?

The horoscope is as follows:—

XII 5-03

. Lagna 6-28
XI 1-03 Sat. 19-16 | “©
Merc. 27-01 Jup. 0-52
10-35 A.M. LS.T. Ir 1-01
Ket. 8-47
13-10-1942 Ii 27-01
IX 27-01 18-55N Rahu 8-47
72-54 E
IV 27-01
VIII 1-01
M 13.33 Venus 13-11
oon 7 Merce. 21-11
VIl6-28 | VI 5-03) | V 1-03 |ygarg 24-15
Sun 28-46

Saturn Dasa balance 4years 7 months 9 days.

Return from the foreign land means leaving his present place,
making a long journey and reuniting with his kith and kin with
whom he was originally living.

Leaving the place where one stays either temporarily or
permanently is to be judged from the 3rd house making a long
journey is to be judged from the 9th house.

Reunion with kith and kin is found from the 11th house.
Therefore one has to judge the houses 3, 9 and 11. 3rd house extends
from 27°11' Cancer to 27°1' Leo. Rahu is posited in that sign. Rahu's
star are Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabisha. Therefore Kethu which is
posited in Rahu star indicates that he leaves the place of residence,
then 9th house extends from 27°1' Capricorn to 27°1' Aquarius.
Kethu alone is posited in the 9th house. Therefore Kethu star
Aswini, Magha and Moola are to be seen, to note whether any planet
or node occupies any of
=== PAGE 0212 ===
208

these 3 stars. Rahu alone is in Magha Therefore, Rahu gives long
journey. 11th house extends from 1°3' Aries to 5°3' Taurus. No
planet is posited in this area. Therefore the lord of the sign in which
tbe 11th cusp falls is to be taken. As the 11th cusp falls in Aries, the
lord of the sign is Mars. Therefore Mars indicates the 11th house
matter and also those planets which are posited in the constellation
of Mars. The stars belonging to Mars are Mrigasira, Chithra and
Danishta. Mars and Sun are deposited in the star of Mars Therefore
Rahu, Kethu, Mars and Sun are the planets which an strong to
indicate these results.

Now let us judge the owners of the houses also. Lord of 3 is
Moon as 3rd cusp falls in 27°1' Cancer ; lord of 9 is Saturn as 9th
cusp falls in Capricorn, Lord of 11 is Mars. Saturn is in Moon's star.
Moon is in Saturn star.

The above are the planets which are connected with one's
long journey and reunion with one's family.

One should never omit to note the ruling planets at the moment
of judgement. Today it is Saturday, Lagna falls in Kethu star
(Moolam) and in Dhanus. The star is Uthrapalguni and the Rasi is
Simha both ruled by Sun. Therefore your son will return when
Kethu dasa Sani Bukthi Rahu Anthra Surya Sookshma operates.
Why should you select Rahu when the lagna is in Dhanus? Since
Guru owns both Dhanus and Meena, according to Krishnamurti if
either of the nodes were to occupy either of the signs belonging to a
planet, then the node will give the results of the lord of both the
signs. So Rahu in Meena is more powerful than Jupiter, even though
he is the owner of Dhanus. Hence the sub period will be ruled by
Rahu instead of Guru, so it will be around 21st January, 1970 at the
time Sun will transit in Saturn sign Sun's star and Kethu sub. So his
date of return is 21-1-1970.

Will he complete Ph.D ? For higher education and grand
success in that, one is to look to the houses 9 and 11 am sure ho
will return after successfully completing the course. The result may
be announced around December 1969. Submission of the thesis will
be around the 2nd or 3rd week of September 1969.
=== PAGE 0213 ===
209
WHO SURVIVES WHOM

1st Method :

You have to calculate the age of each individual separately.
Add the age to the date of birth. Find out who passes away earlier.

2nd Method:

If the sub-lord of the 8th cusp happens to be the significator of
the houses 1, 6, and 8 and if the conjoined period runs in the life
time of the native, the partner passes away. There is nothing as
malefic or benefic occupying 2 or 8. This fails miserably. There are
horoscopes, wherein the 8th house and the second house are
occupied by only benefics and the lady has to become a widow. We,
in our research, collected the horoscopes of widows and widowers
and we have found that the system followed by Tradition does not
satisfy. In many cases it fails. Whether you take sign by sign or
Krishnamurti's method of house division, the best method is to
ascertain the longevity of each separately as said in the first
condition.

CHILD BIRTH

Horoscope is as follows :

Mercury | Sim,
Rahu
4-5-1938
8 P.M. ;
Jupiter
Keth
Sani 7 "
ars
Moon
Lagna

16

=== PAGE 0214 ===
210

Balance of Venus dasa at the time of birth = 4 years 6 months
8 days.

On 16-6-1959, he was running Mars Dasa, Venus Bhukti,
Jupiter Anthra.

Vrischika is the first house, Sagittarius-Dhanus is the second
house. As the Lagna was at 16 Scorpio, Saturn and Rahu are in the
third Bhava ; Mercury in the 5th Bhava ; Sun and Venus in the 6th
Bhava ; Ketu and Mars in the 9th house and Jupiter and Moon in the
10th house.

Generally, the horoscopes of both the husband and the wife are
to be judged for the prospects of progeny,

How to Judge ?
(a) Note the longevity of the couple,

(b) Bear in mind the age of the couple and the likelihood
of the pleasant life, which they can have.

(c) The Dasas and Bhukties which are to operate in the
effective period of one's life.

(d) Find out the strong significator;

(1) The planets in the constellation of the occupants
of the houses 2, 5 or 11 (second house shows the
increase in the number of 'he members of the family by
birth of children; 5th house is for offspring and the 11th
house is not only the fruit of one's action, but also the
5th house to the 7th partner);

(2) the occupants of the houses ?, 5 or 11 ;

(3) the planets in the constellation of the lords of 2,
5, 11 or Jupiter, the chief governor for children :

(4) the lords of the houses 2, 5 or 11 and Jupiter ;
(5) the planets conjoined with them;
(6) and those aspected by the strong significator ;

(e) Judge whether birth of children is promised or not by.
=== PAGE 0215 ===
211

(f) If birth of children is assured, note which planets
indicate. Considering 11 th house sublord to males and 5th
to females. It should be one of the signification of 2 or 5 or
11.

(g) Judge whether it is a male or a female, whether one
at a time or twins etc.

(The editor is of opinion that one has to gain sound
knowledge and vast experience to predict the sex of
the child. So far, I have not found one rule which is
applicable in all cases.)

(h) If birth of children is not promised, whether one will
adopt a child.

(i) or whether one will pass away

(1) before the birth of a child as there are cases where-
in the husband passes away when the wife is in
the family way for the first time,

(2) or whether he will die without making out a will
or adopting a son ora girl.

The various general rules of Traditional System promising
birth of children are given below :

(a) If the houses 2, 5 or 11 are owned by benefics who
occupy favourable houses;

(bl or if these houses are occupied by benefics ;
(c) or if these Cusps receive good aspects from benefics ;

(d) or if these houses are occupied by their owners (1.e.
Swakshethra) whether they are benefics or malefics by
nature;

(e) if the lords of the houses 2, 5 or 11 get exalted and
occupy either Kendra or Kona signs ;

(f) if the lords of 1 and 5 are in mutual exchange (Parivarthana)
=== PAGE 0216 ===
212

(g) if Rahu were to be in the Sth house in Aries, Taurus
or Cancer and if Rahu does not occupy either of the
signs of Saturn in ths Navamsa chart;

(h) if lord of 5 is conjoined with, or aspected by Jupiter ;
(i) if the lords of 2, 5 and L1 are in Parivarthana yoga ;

(j) if the lords of 1 and 5 get exalted and one aspects the
other; (This is applicable to Aries, Scorpio and
Sagittarius )

(k) if the fords of 1 and 7 are in Parivarthana yoga ;

(1) if the lord of 5 gets exalted and Jupiter is in a
Kendra;

(m) if the lords of 2, 5 or 11 are not conjoined with, or
aspected by the delaying planet Saturn; or by the
controlling planet Rahu or by the abortive planet Kethu, or
the malefic Mars or the effeminate Mercury ;

(n) if Jupiter is in a movable sign and the 5th house is
occupied by, or aspected by the lord of 5 ;

(o) if Gemini-Mithuna or Virgo-Kanni happens to be the
5th house and if lords of 2, 7 or 11 or Jupiter do not
occupy the stars Arudhra or Hastham;

(p) if there is no malefic (Saturn, Rahu or Kethu) in the
Lagna and if the houses 5, 7 and 11 are not aspected by
malefics, one will have children, in the conjoined period
of the planets which promise birth of children,

The following are the general rules which indicate that it is
difficult to have a long living child :

(1) (a) If Sun and Saturn are in close conjunction in the
horoscope of the wife ;

(b) orif Sun and Saturn receive bad aspects and if they
themselves form disharmonious aspects ;

(c) or if they occupy the barren signs Aries, Leo, Gemini
and Virgo and receive evil aspects ;
=== PAGE 0217 ===
213

(d) or if the lords of 5 and 8 conjoin together, children
may be born with very short life ;

(2) (a) But if Saturn occupies a Kendra sign and it receives
evil aspects from Venus and Moon ;

(b) if Saturn and Venus are in the 7th house and if Moon
and the lord of 5 form evil aspects, even if one does Homa
or Santhana Gopala Krishna Japa or visit Benares,
Rameswaram, etc, one cannot have a child born to him or
her.

(3) (a) Even though one is bom in any of the three watery
signs, Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, and, Jupiter occupies the
5th house and Mercury and Venus are in the 7th house, if
they are in the constellation of the lords of 6, 8 or 12.

(b) or if there is a malefic in the 4th house and the 5th
cusp is squared by Mars from the 8th house;

(c) or if Moon is in 4, malefic in Lagna, and the lord of
Lagna weak in the Sth house ;

(d) if Moon is in 10, malefic in 4 and Venus in 7 ;

(e) if Moon is in Upachaya Sthana (3, 6, 10 or 11) without
receiving any beneficial aspect from masculine planets,
one cannot have a son.

In the horoscopes of the girls, the monthly period is
indicated by Mars and their fertility by Moon.

in the horoscopes of tbe males, the vitality is shown by
Sun and fertility by Venus. If these planets Sun and Venus
receive good aspects one will surely have children.

One can find out the Beejam of boys and Kshetram of girls
by calculation.

(a) Add the longitudes of Jupiter, Sun and Venus (each
counted from Aries 0°). The result is the sensitive point
in the chart indicating "Beejam" of the boy.

(b) Add the longitudes of Jupiter, Moon and Mars. The
result is the sensitive point in the chart showing
“Kshethram”.
=== PAGE 0218 ===
214

Beejam may be compared to the seed and the Kshethram to
the land.

In a male's chart, if the Beejam is in a masculine sign in rasi
and navamsa and if it is also occupied or aspected by a benefic, the
gentleman will have children. Otherwise he is not promised with a
child.

In a lady’s chart, if the Kshethram is in a female sign, both
in rasi and Navamsa, the lady can have children. Then
generative system is perfect. Otherwise, she has no favourable
indication to bring forth children.

If the Beejam and Kshethram are not afflicted by malefics,
one will have long living children.
(1) In the chart given above,
(a) no planet is in the second house.

(b) Mercury is in the Sth house. Its stars are
Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi. Mercury alone is
in Revathi.

(c) No planet is in the 11th house.
(2) The lord of the second house is Jupiter Its stars are

Punarvasu, Visakham and _ Poorvapathrapada. No
planet occupied any of the 3 stars.

(3) The lord of the 5th house is Jupiter. No planet is in
the constellation ruled by the lord of 5.

(4) The lord of the 11th house is Mercury. Mercury alone
is in the constellation of the lord of the 11 th house.

(5) The lord of 2 is in the constellation of the lord of 12.
Therefore it is weak.

The lord of 11 is in its own constellation. So its
results are not modified by lord of the constellation.

(6) Second house receives the aspect from Jupiter which is
weak.
=== PAGE 0219 ===
215

(7) Sth house is aspected by a delaying Saturn and
malefic Mars. Saturn in the constellation of Bagyadhipathi
Moon, in Upachaya-sthana, aspecting the 5th house will
surely give a child. But, there is a Node, in the house
owned by Saturn. So the Node is stronger than the lord
Saturn. Hence Rahu is a strong significator. It is in the 4th
sign and the third house. According to Hindus, Rahu
receives aspect from Jupiter, Mars and Moon ; Sun as well
as Venus receive aspect from Jupiter.

Rahu dasa is on: Rahu is aspected by lord of 2 and S Jupiter,
thereby Rahu has the strength to indicate birth of children: Rahu
receives aspect from Moon, the lord of 9, Bhagyadhipathi and
becomes beneficial. Rahu aspected by Mars, the lord of Lagna gets
vitality. Mars, as lord of 6, indicates, hospitalisation of wife (being
the 12th house to the 7th house-wife) also. Further Rahu is in the
sign of Saturn which aspects the Sth house. Therefore Rahu has the
beneficial strength to give children.

Sani Is next In strength. Mercury is auspicious.

Therefore this person will have a child during Rahu dasa Sani
bhukti Budha anthra, Rahu dasa Jupiter bhukti ends on 18th
December 1965. Budha anthra in Saturn bhukti will commence on
30th May 1966. It will run for 4 months and 25 days.

Therefore in 1966, Mercury, the significator has to transit
Arudhra star- ruled by dasanatha Rahu, in the sign owned by
anthranatha Mercury. We cannot consider Sathabhisha star governed
by Rahu, in the sign of Saturn, the Bhuktinatha, as on and after June
1966, Mercury will be in Arudhra or Swathi. Hence according to
Krishnamurti Padhdhati when Mercury is in the sub of Saturn, in the
star of Rahu, In the sign of Mercury 1.e., when Mercury by transit is
in between 10°26'40"and 12°33'20" in Gemini-Mithuna (Nirayana).

Mercury will be in that position on 10-6-1966.
Therefore, you will have the first child on 10th June 1966.
Actually the child is born on 10-6-1966.
=== PAGE 0220 ===
216

IS THERE AT LEAST ONE CHILD?
The following is the correct chart:

Rahu
Jupiter
Rasi
5-1-1932
Venus
Saturn
Sun
Mars oon Kethu
Lagna ercury

At the time of birth he had a balance of 4 years 7 months
and 12 days of Saturn dasa.

For children, one has to examine the houses 2, 5 and 11 ; also
one should note the strength of Jupiter.

House 2 is occupied by Saturn and Venus; The former is the
lord of 2 in its own sign and Venus is lord of 11 in its friend's
quarters.

The stars of Saturn are Pushya, Anuradha and Uthrapathra pada.
Moon is in Anuradha and Rahu is in Uthrapathra pada. Moon and
Rahu are the significators.

Venus rules Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada stars :
Sun alone occupies Poorvashada and no planet is in the other two
stars.

Houses 5 and 11 are vacant

The 2nd house is owned by Saturn. Moon and Rahu
will offer such results which Saturn as lord of 2, is to give.
=== PAGE 0221 ===
217

5th house is owned by Mars. It is Vargothama and strong.
Mars is a significator.

11th house is owned by Venus. Sun in its constellation is
stronger. Venus is also a significator as lord of 11 in 2. Therefore
Venus, Sun, Mars and Rahu are the strong significators.

During Venus dasa, Moon bhukti, Venus anthra, when Sun
transits in Rohini 4th pada (Venus sign, Moon star-Venus sub) his
wife will conceive, 1.e, around 7th June, 1966. During Venus dasa
Mars bhukti Saturn anthra he will have a child, i.e., in the middle of
March 1967.

The following are the charts of the persons, who consulted
to know whether they will have any child at all.

Moon Lagna Venus
Jupiter
Saturn
Kethu
11 P.M.
17-8-1916
Sun
Rahu Mercury
Mars

At the time of birth, Mercury

dasa balance is 4 years 6 months.
=== PAGE 0222 ===
218

Jupiter

Saturn
Kethu
Venus

10-9-1916

at sunrise
Rahu Lagna
Moon Sun

Mars Mercury

Another horoscope is of a
person born on 10-9-1916,

Another friend's chart is erected for his birth time
1-56 A.M. on 20-4-1919.

Sun Kethu

Mercury Mars Venus Jupiter

RASI

Lagna Saturn

Moon
Rahu

=== PAGE 0223 ===
219

These persons have not got any child at all.

(Whenever one wants to find out the day of an event in any
Bhukti or anthra, one is to note whether the lord of the Bhukti and
Anthra are strong or the lord of the constellation. The Lord of the
constellation, if stronger, will give the results only on its day.)

Adoption

(1) If Jupiter and lord of 5 are ill-placed and if the 5th
house from the signs occupied by them is occupied by
malefics one will adopt a child.

(2) If the Sth cusp falls in Saturn's sign in rasi or Navamsa
and if Moon is in 5 or aspects the Sth house one
adopts.

(3) If Saturn is conjoined with the lord of the sign occupied
by Moon one adopts.

(4) Saturn, Moon and Mercury in 5- adoption.
(5) Saturn and Mars in 5th house-adopted.
(6) Saturn conjoined with Moon in 1 1-adoption,

(7) Ifthe Sth house is occupied or aspected by Saturn or
Mercury, and Gulika is in 5; adoption.

(8) Seventh house is also to be judged for adoption.

About Issues:

Kerala: In Tradition, an improved method. It is judged
by finding Santana Chandra, Santana Ravi, Santana Yoga etc.,
Santana Chandra is obtained by multiplying Moon's longitude by 5.
Santana Ravi is obtained by multiplying the longitude of Lagna by 5,
Subtract from Santana Moon, the value of Santana Ravi, it is Santana
Thithi.

If it is Sukla Paksha i.e. between 0° and 180° there will be
children. But if the figure is between 180° and 360° , It is Krishna
Paksha and it is difficult to have a child. If the difference is between
0° and 60° one will have children at great intervals, If
=== PAGE 0224 ===
220

the result is between 120° and 180° at short intervals, rapidly, one
will have children. If the result is between 180° and 240°, there will
be birth of children. If it is between 240° and 252°, by worshiping
Muruga, son of Siva, one can have a child. If it is between 240° and
300° he may marry another, pray, do charity and fast. He may have a
child. Between 300° and 324°, the wife may have false pregnancy. If
tbe result is between 324° and 348°, one will adopt a child. If it is
between 348° and 363° one will not take adoption and one will not
have a child. By doing Ashtaka or Parvana Sradha one can please the
Manes and have an issue. Those who do not perform or think of their
parents or do the rites, annual ceremony etc. will not have a child.
There is danger to the children born alto. If it is Krishna Paksha
Shasti, pray Muruga. If it is Krishna Paksha Chaturthi, propitiate Lord
Ganesh : if it is Krishna Paksha Navami, pray Goddess Durga:
Saptami and Chaturdasi, serpents ; Amavasya, Pithrus and Dwadasi,
Sun.

Pregnancy :

First month is ruled by Venus ; the semen continues to be
in liquid State.

Second month is governed by Mars: embryo solidifies.

Third month-Jupiter-limbs are formed.

Fourth month-Sun; bones gets formed.

Fifth month-Moon-supplies the skin.

Sixth month-Saturn-allows hair to grow.

Seventh month-Mercury-develops nervous system.

Eighth month-Lord of Adhana Lagna-umbilical cord takes
food to the child.

Ninth month-Sun-foetus feels thirst and hunger.
Tenth month-ready for delivery-Moon rules.
Abortion takes place in that month if that planet ruling that

month ill-posited and adversely aspected. Miscarriage will be
in that month ruled by the planet in debilitation and afflicted.
=== PAGE 0225 ===
221
Short-lived children

(1) If in the horoscope of the child that is born, malefics are in
Lagna and seventh house conjoined with Moon and devoid
of beneficial aspect, it will pass away immediately after
delivery.

(2) Waning Moon in 12, malefics in | and 8, no benefic in
a Kendra, short-lived.

(3) Moon conjoined with malefics in 7 or 3 or 12. short-
lived.

Eunuchs

According to Hindus Sun in a masculine sign and Moon
in a feminine sign, roughly 180 degrees away or one opposing
the other, will cause the birth of Eunuch.

If Mercury and Saturn were to be roughly 180 degrees of or if
the Lagna and the Moon occupy masculine signs receiving the
Hindu aspect by Mars, or if Moon were to occupy a feminine sign
and Mercury in a masculine sign receiving aspect from Mars or by
both show that the person in his life time will prove to be useless for
sexual life.

But according to K.P. the lord of the constellation and the lord
of the sub should be governed by Saturn or Rahu or Ketu aud all of
them should be the significators of 4, 10 and 12.

"Marriage is made in Heavens, God is great". This is proved
in the following case.

A girl named Bhagyam was born in a family known to me. We
were of equal age. We were class-mates. When she was 11 years old
she had her marriage celebrated with one, named Madhana Gopala
Krishnan. He was also around 16 years of age, then. One year, two
years, and then years after years passed on The mother of the girl
was very anxious as the girl did not report that she had attained
puberty. Anyhow, since they were, even before marriage, related,
the mother of the girl
=== PAGE 0226 ===
222

and the father of the boy agreed to set family for both Bhagyam and
Madana Gopala Krishnan in the neighboring town. They lead their
life for decades most happily. The nature denied them the pleasure
through animal life. They did not have such a pleasure, because he
cannot prove himself to be a man and his generative system was also
equally defective and useless. This girl is also not fit for such a
pleasure. But somehow, the parents have given the name Bhaygam,
meaning fortune, luck, pleasure etc. So also Krishna means, one who
will be in the midst of girls who are the devotees. Madhana Gopal
Krishnan should mean, the utmost happiness and pleasure much
more than Krishna. But see ! The unfit man bad married the unfit
girl. This is the action of God according to their Karma, which
proves to show that "God is great and Marriage is fixed in the
Heavens."

Remedy Suggested:

One may have to perform "Shanthi". You have mentioned that
you pray for Lord Ganesh. It is correct, because, the 5th house
indicates the initiation of the Mantra, Upasana etc. Ketu is in the 5th
house, it is aspected by Mars, the lord of 5. Jupiter, the religious
planet ruling the 9th house and the planet Saturn throwing obstacles.
Mars and Ketu. having connection with the 5th house indicate that
you are a devotee of Lord Ganesh.

Whenever Jupiter aspects either the Ascendant or the Moon in a
horoscope, the person will have faith and knowingly or
unknowingly, will be doing meritorious deeds : he may also pray or
do "Shanthi". In the horary chart, Jupiter aspects Moon, who is also
the lord of Lagna and hence you will follow the advice to enjoy the
beneficial results.

flf one is afraid of one's longevity, have an idol made of wood
or clay and pray. It bestows long life also, people desiring to have
much of prosperity can have it in sandalwood. For victory over
enemies, idol in clay or sandal wood or Swetha Arka is the best. An
idol made of coral gives success in competition, authority, power
and health. Generally, rich people
=== PAGE 0227 ===
223

do not maintain good health. An idol made of gold possessed by
them, will offer good health. Those who suffer from chronic disease
may have them figure of the Lord; in the ring or pendant, for speedy
recovery from the disease and to maintain good health in the future.
If silver is used to make the idol, it gives name, fame, reputation etc.
If the idol is made of copper, one will have children. If the idol is
prepared in stone, one will be lucky to have much of landed

property.

But one should handle the idol carefully and keep it safely.
If the image is hurt, it is an ill omen. It affects the head man
of the family. If any hole forms on the idol, there will be
disease, trouble etc. However costly it may be, give it away to
the temple authorities to be kept in the temple.

Therefore, buy Lord Ganesh made of copper and pray for
him.

"Shanthi" done calmly during night hours will never go in vain
as there will be no disturbance and you can then concentrate.

Lord Ganesh made of copper gives enthusiasm and
encouragement : Ganesh will bless you with a child.

People desirous of enjoying all the fruits of life, make the idol
in an alloy of gold, silver, copper,etc."Panchaloka".

Whether you pray or not, if the chart shows that exactly In 3
years, you will have a child, then, on the day predicted by
astrologer, the consultant will become the father.

ANY CHILD AT ALL
The above question is put by a gentlemen who had got married

on 20th May, 1959 and so far he has no issue. He gives number 247
at 8-45 A.M. on Sunday, the 31 st August, 1969 at Delhi.
=== PAGE 0228 ===
224

The horoscope for the number given and tor the time of
judgment is as follows ;

Moon
L 2-26
agna
74-€-46 Sat 17-31 III 25-38 IV 18-38
11 28-38
‘Venus
Rahu 28-27 93
XII 14-38 V 13-38
Sun 14-14
XI 13-38 VI 14-38
Kethu
28-27
IX 25-38 Mere. 11-16
X 18-38 Mars VIII 28-36 Jupiter
24-56
VII 24-6-40

Moon indicates the nature of the query. Where is Moon ?

It is in a barren sign in the constellation of the abortive
node Kethu who is the significator of the houses 5 and 6. There-fore
the question is about the child birth.

Is it promised or not? As the question is from the male note the
11th and then only the fifth. The eleventh cusp is in 13°38" in
Capricorn in Saturn sign Moon star and the sub of one in the 12th
house. So the 11th cusp denies. The fifth cusp is in 14°38' in the
barren sign Leo in the sign of barren planet Sun star of the planet in
the 12th house to the fifth and in the sub of one in the 12th to the
5th house. This also does not promise. Generally houses 2, 5 and 11
are judged to note the time when one can have a child. Here the
second house is vacant. Its lord is Mars. It is in the constellation of
the planet in the 6th house occupying the strong barren sign. Mars
in 8 has no strength as it is also in the sub of Rahu in 12. Lord of 2
is so spoiled that it is in 8, it is in the constellation of the planet in 6,
and it is in the sub of one in 12. Then how can
=== PAGE 0229 ===
225

there be an increase In the family by the birth of a child. It is
out of question.

5th house is occupied by Sun. It is in the constellation of
Venus in the 4th house denying any child.

Lord of 5 Moon is in Kethu constellation who is in 6 and
in the sub of the planet in 4 and is conjoined with retrograde
planets Saturn, who is lord of 11 and 12.

The 11th house is unoccupied. Its lord is Saturn. It is
retrograde in the twelfth house to two. Hence there is no doubt. He
can never have a child at all.

The horoscope of the person is as follows:

X10-3 Mars 13-08
Rahu X116-03 | Lagna 13-35
2-55 Jup. 22-05
X 26-03 113-03
voor III 27-03
7th September 1930
0-2 A.M.
IX 27-03 26-20N 78.03 E
Sun 20-53
VIII 3-03 36.03
Sat. 29-29 Ven, 7.03 —
VII 13-35 VI 6-03 Kethu 2-55 asi
V 0-3

Rahu Dasa balance |4years 11 months. Saturn dasa has started.
Saturn is in the constellation of the node which is the significator of
5 and 12. 11th cusp is also in the other constellation of Kethu, the
significator of 5 and 12 and sub of Kethu. Fifth cusp is in the sub of
Mercury in the house 12 to 5. Saturn, the dasa lord is in the sub of
Mercury who is in 4; hence in Saturn Dasa no change at all. Then
Mercury Dasa will operate from the age of 49 to 66, Mercury in the
barren sign in the
=== PAGE 0230 ===
226

constellation of one not connected with 5 or 11 and in the sub
of a node, the abortive evil will not give. Hence I do not expect
any child to you.

In natal charts 5 and 11 are important Second house includes.

(a) any younger brother or sister born,
(b) marriage,

(c) birth of children, etc, 5 sad 11 alone specify increase in
the number of the family by birth of children to oneself.

Example II

The above question is put up by a gentleman, with a No. 234,
between | and 249, who get married in the year 196 November 16th
and no issue so far. The time of judgment was on 26-12-69 at7 P.M.
(.S.T.) on Friday at Jorhat, 20°48' N and 96° 16'E.

The map of heavens for the number and for the time of
judgment is as below;

1 8-6-40] Sa 8-47 | ny 13-36 IV 7-36
Il 14-36
V 1-36
Rahu 22-14
Mars 14-51 Moon
12-09
XII 0-36
No. 235
XI 1-36 VI 0-36
Merc. 0-59 Kethu 22-14
Sun 12-16 VIII 14-36

X 7-36 IX 13-36
Ven. 4-18

Jup. 8-14 VII 8-6-40

=== PAGE 0231 ===
227

Star Lord Sub Lord

Sun Kethu Mercury
Moon Saturn Mars
Mars Rahu Kethu
Mercury Sun Rahu
Jupiter Rahu Rahu
Venus Kethu Moon
(R) Saturn Kethu Jupiter
Rahu Jupiter Saturn
Kethu Venus — Saturn

Moon represents the mind. It is in the constellation of
Saturn. Lord of 11 and in the sub of Mars Lord of 2, and Moon
owns 5th house and posited in the 5th house. So the question is
about the child birth.

Is it promised or not ? As the question is from the male,
the 11th house is to be judged first and then the 5th house.

The 11th cusp 1-36' in Capricorn. It is in the sign of Saturn
(R) Star of Sun and sub of Jupiter. Now let us judge Sun and
Jupiter. Sun is lord of 6th in the constellation of Kethu, the
abortive node, posited in a barren sign (Leo). Further, Sun is
posited in the 10th bhava, which is 12th to 11th and, in the sub of
Mercury, lord of 4 and 7, which is 12 to 5th and 8th respectively,
wherein 8th house is 2nd to the 7th. Jupiter is in constellation of
Rahu and in the sub of Rahu, which is posited in the 12th.
Therefore 11th cusp demise.

Houses 2, 5 and 11 arc to be judged to note the time of
child birth.

2nd house is vacant, the lord is Mars, which is conjoined
with Rahu in 12 and it is in the consultation of Rahu and in the sub
of Kethu. Hence Mars is spoiled.

5th house is occupied by Moon, and owns fifth house. No
planet is in the constellation of Moon, but Moon is in the
constellation of Saturn which is retrograde, and in the sub of Mars,
a planet posited in the 12th bhava, which is also in conjunction
with Rahu.
=== PAGE 0232 ===
228

11th houseis vacant and its lord is Saturn (R). Rahu is in the
sign of Saturn. Jupiter and Mars are deposited in its star. Jupiter is
in the sub of Rahu, which represents the retrograde Saturn, and
Mars in the sub of Kethu.

It is quite comprehensive from the foregoing that the birth
of a child is not promised for him.

The horoscope of the native is as below.

X 1-53 X16-53. | XI 12-53 |Moon4-01
I 16-31
Sun 3-58
Rahu I 8-53
ee - Mer.(R) 20-04
; ries Ven. 27-47
(Thursday) 112-53
Sar®) Kethu
21-17 Jullunder 7-29
VHT! Jup. 27-02
IV 1-53

VII 16-31 VI 12-53 V 6-53 Mars 13-23

Balance of Mars Dasa is | year, 4 months and 21 days. 11th
cusp in his horoscope is Aries 6°53’. It is in the sign of Mars, star of
Kethu and sub of Rahu. Mars, the sign lord is posited in Virgo a
barren sign and in the 4th bhava which is 12 to 5. The star lord
Kethu the abortive node is also in a barren sign. The sub lord Rahu
is an agent of Saturn which is retrograde in his chart. Therefore 11th
cusp denies in his birth chart also.

The 2nd house is occupied by Mercury and Venus and both of
them are in the star of (R) Mercury lord of 14 which is 11 to 2 and
5. 5th house is vacant and the owner is Venus, which has been
already considered. 11th house is also vacant and the owner
=== PAGE 0233 ===
229

is Mars ; posited in the 4th and Moon alone in its star. But
Moon occupies the 12th bhava in a barren sign, and in the sub
of Venus, which is in conjunction with and in the star of
Mercury Lord | and 4 which is retrograde also.

Now Saturn Dasa is on as per the horoscope as well as per
horary chart. Therefore it is predicted that the native can never have
a child at all.

Who is sterile?

The sub lord of the Asc. is Venus and the sub lord of the 7th
cusp is Moon. Venus is in a mute sign and Moon is in a barren sign.
So she is sterile. Can we confirm 7 Venus is in the star of Mercury
and sub of Jupiter. But Moon is in the star of Mars and sub of
Venus.

The ruling planets of the native is Jupiter, Mars, Mercury and
Rahu. (i.e. Jupiter, Mars, Mercury and Rahu). The ruling planets of
the female is taken as the significators of the 2, 7 and 11th house of
the male, are Venus, Jupiter, Moon and Mars. The ruling planets at
the time of judgment in Horary chart are Venus, Saturn, Moon,
Saturn. As Venus and Moon are representing the female who were
the ruling planets at the time of judgment confirms that she is sterile.

WHEN WILL I HAVE A CHILD?

The above question was put forward by a lady from
WELLAMPITIYA, CEYLON, who got married in 1967. She gave
the number 18, Between 1 and 249.

Time of judgment is 5.37 A.M. C.S.T. on 11-12-1969.

Place of judgment: Mandandawela, Matale.

The horoscope for the number given and for the time
of judgment is as follows:
=== PAGE 0234 ===
230

Saturn(R) 9-15

XII 22-35' II 18-35' -35'
1 25-53-20" III 20-35
Rahu 23-03'
XI 19-35' IV 18-35'
Mars 3-14'
V 19-35"
X 18-35' Kethu
23-03'

IX 18-35' Ven. 14-45' | VII 25-53'
Merc. 8-45' | VIII 24-35' | Jup. 5-43'

Moon 7-35' |Sun 25-26 VI 22-35'

Moon indicates the nature of the query. Moon in Kethu's
constellation indicates the matters signified by Kethu who owns the
5th. The sub lord Jupiter is the chief governor for child. Jupiter is a
strong significator of 11. Hence the query is about child birth.

Is it promised or not ? This question has to be judged from 5
and 11. The Sth cusp is in a barren sign and in the star of a planet
(Venus) in 3rd from 5th. Further it is in the sub of a node in 11 from
lagna.

The 11th cusp is in the star of Rahu, in 11th itself, and in the
sub of Mars. The sub lord Mars is deciding factor and is in 12 to 11.
Hence it does not promise.

From the above it is clear that even if she conceives, the result
will not fructify or it may end up in abortions due to the aspects of
malefics to 5 and 11, and specially due to the presence of abortive
planet Kethu in 5.

For child birth, houses 2, 5 and 11 are judged.

2nd house is vacant. It«s lord is Mars. It is in its own
constellation and in the sub of a planet in 6 to 2.
=== PAGE 0235 ===
231

5th house is occupied by abortive planet Kethu. It is in Venus,
3rd from 5, and in the sub of a retrograding planet (Saturn) in 8 to 5
denying any child,

11th house is occupied by Rahu. Rahu is in the star of Jupiter
which is in 8 to 11, and in the sub of a retrograding planet in 12 to
lagna.. Hence there is no doubt at all. She can never have a child.

The horoscope of the person is as follows.

Moon 24°32' 11 3°09"
XII 4°07 15°54
XI 1°07' Kethu 8°25
ILI 0°07
Mars 5°27'
Saturn (R) 8-8-1936 _
28°44" Sun 22°11
Birth Time: IV 29°07!
12-43 a.m. C.S.T.
Ambalangoda Venus 3°15'
X 29°07' (6°N14« & 80°E oct)
207 03') Ayanamsa 22' Mere. 6°51
IX 0°07' 32!
Rahu 8°25' VII 5°54'

VII 3°09 jup.(R) 21°45, VI4°07 V 1°07'

Balance dasa at birth: Mercury Dasa 6 years, 11 months,
19 days.

5th cusp is in the star Sun which js a strong significator
of 12 to 5 The sub lord, a retrograding planet is in 5th from
lagna.

11th cusp is in the star Jupiter in 7 to lagna, besides being the
strong significator of 12 to 11. Further the sub lord is in neechcha
with the above mentioned Sun.

2nd house is occupied by an abortive planet Kethu. It is in
the star and sub of same planet, Rahu in 8 to lagna.

5th house is vacant. Its lord is Mercury. It is in 12 to 5.
Mercury is in the star of abortive planet in 2 and in the sub of a
node in 8 from lagna.
=== PAGE 0236 ===
232

11th house is occupied by Moon. It is in the star of a mute
planet in 6 from 11 and in the sub of a planet in 8 from lagna.

Venus is in the abortive planet Kethu which is a strong
significator of 8 to lagna and 12 to 5. Further it is in the sub of
a barren planet which is a significator of 3rd from lagna.
Venus is in 12 to 5 and 6 to 11. Hence Venus Dasa does not
promise any child.

Sun is the lord of a barren sign. It is in the star of a mute
planet Mercury which is in 12 to S. Further it is in the sub of a
planet which is a strong significator of 12 to 5.

Moon is in the star Mercury which is 12 to 5 and 6 to 11;
and in sub Rahu in 8 from lagna. Hence I do not expect any
child to you.

Example II
Time of judgment: 8.50 A.M.
Date of judgment: 4-12-69.
Place of Judgment; Matale.
Number mentioned between | and 249 is 220.
Hence the lagna falls at 18.6'40" Kumba.

Saturn (R)
22°51" | 9°33! IV 21°51" | vigest'
I 23°51"
FT 18°6'40" VI 16°51"
Mr, D.G.
Mars 28°31' VII 18°6'40"
XI 16°51'
Rahu
23°24!
Ven. 6°42! ut
ony Sun 18°58" IX 23°51' oon
XI 18°51 x 31°81) 17°08

Merc.29°04' VII 22°51'

=== PAGE 0237 ===
233

Moon is in a mute sign and in its own constellation. It is in 7
and is a strong significator of 7. 7th house denotes partner in life.
Moon is in the sub of Saturn which is in 2, denoting family and
finance besides being the significator of 5. Hence this shows an
addition of a child to the family through wife.

Since the querist is a male, consider the houses 11 and 5.

11th cusp is in Jupiter sign Venus star Rahu sub. The sub
lord Rahu is in 3rd from 11th. Hence it denies.

5th cusp is in a mute sign and its lord Mercury is in 6th to Sth.
This cusp is in Rahu star, Moon sub. The sub lord Moon is in 3rd
from 5th besides being the strong significator of same. This also
does not promise.

Generally 2, 5 and 11 are judged to note the time
when one can have a child.

Here, the 2nd cusp is in Mercury star in sub of a planet in
6th or 2nd. 2nd house is occupied by retrograding Saturn which
is on abortive note. 6th to 2nd and in its sub. Hence this too
does not help.

5th house is vacant. Its lord in 6th from Sth, in its own
star and in the sub of a retrograding planet.

11th house is vacant and its lord is Jupiter. It is in 8th from
lagna, in the star of Mars which is 12th to lagna and in sub of a
planet in 9.

All these factors do not promise and the native will never
have a child.

WHEN WILL MY DAUGHTER DELIVER?

My friend wanted to know astrologically about his
daughter’s confinement.

The number mentioned by him between | and 249 was 111.
The time and place of judgment were 6-45 P.M. 18-9-69 and
Matale, Ceylon.
=== PAGE 0238 ===
234

VIII 8°40'
VII 7°47' Sat. (R) IX 8°40' X 7°40!
14°56'
Ven. 1°7'
Rahu 27°29'
XI 6°40"
VI 6°40"
XII 6°40'
V 6°40' Kethu
27°29"
IIL 8°40’ Sun 2"0n
ogy I 7°46'40
IV 7°40 oa
Moon II 8°40) Jup. 18°30!
Mars 5°01' 24°41'
Merc. (R)
21°18'

Balance Dasa at birth : Mercury Dasa, Rahu Bukthi 6 months
16 days.

Moon is in Mercury star, Rahu sub; Mercury is in Moon star,
Venus sub. The sub-lord Rahu is in the sign of Saturn and in the
constellation of Jupiter. Hence Rahu displaces Saturn who is a
strong significator of 5th and Jupiter who is the chief governor for
children. Therefore it is true that he wanted to know about his child.

Confinement or delivery means addition of members to the
family and it is the wish and gain to the family. Hence consider
houses 2 and 11 besides 5.

5th cusp is in Sun star Mercury (R) sub.
11th cusp is in Saturn (R) star Mercury (R) sub.

2nd cusp is in Rahu star Jupiter sub.

I checked up and found that Mercury continues to retrograde
till 8-10-1969. Hence I looked at him with a query.

"Yes, Continue When do you expect the delivery"
=== PAGE 0239 ===
235

"The hospital authorities had informed her on
examination that sbe might deliver on or before 6th October, 1969"

“Tt is so! But will never have the child before 8-10-1969,"

“The specialist who bad examined her had told so," my
friend retorted.

"Yes. If 1 am a specialist in Gynecology, I too would have said
so. But I am telling this astrologically that she will never have the
child before 8-10-69 and I am prepared to confirm it.”’

My friend was pleasantly surprised at my confidence. In
the meantime I started to calculate.

Houses to be examined ; 2, 5 and 11

The 2nd house is vacant. Its lord is Venus. Bharani, P. Phalguni
and Purvashada are governed by Venus. Saturn is in Bharani. Hence
Saturn (R) is a strong significator while Venus is next in strength.

The 5th house is vacant. Its lord is Saturn (R). Saturn governs
Pushya, Anuradha and U.Bhadrapada. No planet is in the above
stars. Hence Saturn (R) is a strong significator.

11th house is vacant. Its lord is Moon. Rohini, Hastha and
Sravana are ruled by Moon. Jupiter and Mercury are in Hasta star.
Hence Jupiter and Mercury are strong significators while Moon is
next in strength.

As mentioned earlier, Rahu governs Saturn and Jupiter. Hence
select Rahu and reject Saturn.

To select the strongest significators, reject the planets that are
not in the sub of lords of 2, 5 and 11. Hence Mercury and Rahu are
strong to give results. Therefore when Mercury becomes direct on
8-10-1969, and in Mercury Dasa Rahu Bukthi she should deliver.

Let us note the bhukti periods in detail:

Mercury Dasa Rahu Bukthi operates for 6 months 16 days
from 18-9-1969,
=== PAGE 0240 ===
236

Venus could not help as his period would be over on
8-10-1969, when Mercury becomes direct.

Sun is a significator to give results as he is with the
significators Mercury and Jupiter. Hence during its period, the
delivery will take place, and the probable sookshma period will be
that of Sun or Rahu or Jupiter.

18- 9-69 to 8-10-'69..... Venus Anthra.
8-10-'69 to 24-10-'69..... Sun Anthra.
24-11-'69 to 28- 2-'70.... Moon Anthra.
Now let us note the sookshma periods ;
8-10-69 to 10. 3-11-'69 ... Sun Sookshma.
10. 3-10-69 to 14. 1-10-'69..... Moon Sookshma.
14. 1-10-'69 to 16 8-10-'69. . .. Mars Sookshma.
16. 8-10-'69 to 23. 7-10-'69 ... Rahu Sookshma.

23. 7-10-'69 to 29-10-69 Jupiter Sookshma
As such the delivery should take place between 8-10-'69
and 10-9-1969 or between 16-10-'69 and 29-10-'69.

But according to transit, on 24-10-'69 ; MERCURY will be in
Mercury sign Sun sub ; RAHU will be in Jupiter star Mercury sub ;
SUN will be in Rahu star Rahu sub; Jupiter will be in Mercury sign
Jupiter sub and Moon will be in Jupiter sign Mercury star. Hence I
declared that his daughter would deliver on Friday 24-10-1969.

The friend was surprised to hear this and he wanted to know
the sex of the child too.

Always the sub-lord is the deciding factor and here the Anthra
lord will decide the sex of the child at that time. I never had any
experience in pin-pointing the sex before birth but as the Anthra and
Sookshma Lord are male planets I informed him that she would be
blessed with a son.
=== PAGE 0241 ===
237

Days and weeks had passed and this friend paid me a surprise
visit on 24-10-69 to inform me that his daughter was blessed with a
male child about 7-55 a.m. on 24-10-69 exactly as predicted.

Astrology is not a monopoly. Authors are many. Principles are
innumerable. Methods are plenty. Yet such principles which are
vague, confusing, etc, when followed, one becomes incapable of
offering definite, clear and precise prediction. They, themselves, can
and will offer useful predictions, if they switch off tradition and
follow Krishnamurti Padhdhati. Why should we mention. Probably,
Likely, Tendency, etc., when one cannot dodge his fate. Learn K. P,
Be useful.

WHEN DELIVERY?

The significance of Krishnamurti Padhdhati as a reliable
practical astrology is expounded by Shri Sivopatham of Ceylon. The
accuracy with which he could predict the birth of the child is
illustrated here.

Part 1.

For predictive and practical astrology, Krishnamurti Padhdhati
is the only reliable system. The more you follow this, the more you
get interested and all your pains and labors will be blessed by Lord
Maha Ganapathy_ I still wonder how my Guruji, rectifies the birth
times, and fixes correct positions of the Ascendants even to the sub
sub, without the use of pen, paper and Ephemeris. This shows not
only about his concentration power but also about the perfectness of
his system. There was an urge in me to try similarly.

On 19-11-69, on my way to office, a friend wanted me to help
him in this subject. His wife was in Jaffna and the date of
confinement given by the medical officers was 15-11-69. He had
been there till 18-11-69, but his wife did not deliver. He returned on
19-11-69, and wanted me to pinpoint the date of birth of his child,
astrologically.

The number was given 135. After some silence and
concentration, I declared he would have the child on the evening
=== PAGE 0242 ===
238

of 23-11-69 or in the early morning of 24-11-69. My friend was
laughing at me and could not believe this prediction which was
given readily without any laborious calculations on paper and
reference to ephemeris.

Part 2.

I moved on to my office. On the way, my mind was checking
about the prediction us follows :

Number given was 135. No. 125 is 0 deg. Thula; 136 is about
6° Thula; 135 is about 15 Thula 140 is about 21° Thula and so on.
Hence the 5th and 11th cusps must fall at 14° Kumba and 14°
Simha up proximately. Rahu and Kethu are in 5 and 11 ; and in
Jupiter star and Venus star respectively. Hence RAHU governs
JUPITER besides SATURN white KETHU governs VENUS
besides SUN.

The ascendant rises In Venus sign Rahu star. Hence VENUS is
one of the ruling planets. On this day Venus is in Lagna and is in
Rahu star. Hence Venus is stronger than Rahu to give results besides
it being the significators of 5 and 11, Further Venus is a powerful
ruling planet as she is in her own sign. Hence when Moon transits in
the sign of VENUS, the result should manifest. On this day, Moon is
in Meena, Mercury star and the earliest day will be when it transits
the sign Vrishaba. Next strong planet will be the one that is related
to this Venus. As mentioned earlier, Kethu becomes the second
strong significator due to its governorship. Hence when Moon is in
Venus sign Kethu star;- no Kethu star in Vrishaba and Sun can
replace it due to the governorship of Kethu; so in SUN star it should
show the results. Moon transits (Vrishaba) VENUS sign SUN star in
late 23-11-69 and early 24-11-1969.

So I was little satisfied with my prediction and waited for the
result.

Part 3.

On the same day itself, at 7-30 P.M. 1 sat down to check it up.
The chart for the query was as follows ;
=== PAGE 0243 ===
239

Sat. (R)
om 10°28'
Moon 24°10! VII 14°23'| LX 13°32!
VI 15°32' Vit
15°13' 20"
Rahu
24°12' X 12°32'
V 13°32! 7-30 p.m. Matale
No. 135. Lagna
Mars 15°13'20" Thula 039!
ee) XI 13°32
Wy 130 Ket. 24°12
Sun 3°44' Ven. 17°48'
Ill 13°32! Mercury XII 15°32

5°38) I 15°13'20"
1114°32' | Jup. 1°41'

For child birth consider houses 2, 5 and 11.
The 2nd cusp is in Saturn star Rahu sub.
The 5th cusp is in Moon star Rahu sub.
The 11th cusp is in Venus star Venus sub.

Since the sub lords of the above cusps are the significators of
the above houses, then safe delivery is promised.

2nd house is vacant. Its lord is Mars. Jupiter is in Mars star.
Hence Jupiter and Mars are significators.

5th house is occupied by Rahu. Venus is in Rahu star. Saturn is
the lord 5th. Sun and Mercury are on Saturn star. Hence Venus and
Rahu are strong significators while Sun, Mercury and Saturn are
next in strength.

11th house is occupied by Kethu. Saturn is in Kethu star. Sun
is the lord 11 and no planet is in its star. Hence Saturn (R) Kethu
and Sun are significators.

Now the significators, of houses are Jupiter, Mars, Venus,
Rahu, Sun, Mercury, Saturn (R) and Kethu.

Rahu is in Saturn sign Jupiter star. Hence Rahu governs Saturn
and Jupiter. Similarly Kethu governs Sun and Venus.
=== PAGE 0244 ===
240

Therefore reject Saturn, Jupiter, Sun and Venus and select
Rahu and Kethu. Now the significators are Kethu, Rahu, Mercury
and Mars.

At the time of judgement:

(1) The ascendant is in Venus sign Rahu star, Venus sub.
(2) Moon is in Jupiter sign Mercury star Rahu sub.

(3) The day is Wednesday, ruled by Mercury and it is in
Mars sign, Saturn star and Mercury sub.

Among these (1), (2), (3), the strongest and the common are
Kethu, Rahu and Mercury. Hence these planets found among
the significators will manifest the result.

As this is a minor event that is expected to manifest within
a week. consider the transit of Moon. When Moon transit to
a position ruled by Kethu, Rahu and Mercury, the result will
manifest.

Judgement;

Nodes are powerful than planets. Hence the result will be
shown when Moon transits the sign ruled by Kethu or Rahu.

If Kethu is considered; then the signs will be
Vrishabha and Simha ruled by Venus and Sun respectively.

If Rahu is considered; then the signs are (Makara and Kumbha
will not manifest as Saturn retrogrades). Meena and Dhanus ruled
by Jupiter, or Kataka ruled by Moon as it is in the sub of Rahu.

Among these Venus sign is selected as Venus is a common
significator of 5 and 11, and stronger due to its placement in her
own sign. The arguments for selecting Sun (Kethu) star is the
same as mentioned in part 2. The sub lord will be Mercury as it is
favourably placed from Venus and Sun, besides being on tbe same
stellar lord Saturn. Now Rahu should guide to determine the sub-
lord. Rahu governs Saturn (R) and Jupiter. Retrograding planet will
not manifest result. Hence, the sub-lord should be jupiter. Therefore,
when Moon transits Venus sign, Sun star, Mercury sub, Jupiter sub-
sub. It is when Moon's
=== PAGE 0245 ===
241

position is 6°-27'-03" Vrishaba. Moon comes to this position
on 24-11-1969 sharp at 2 A.M.

Further it is interesting that this day will be ruled by
Moon because she is a significator due to her placement on sub-lord
Rahu.

Therefore, I telephoned him and informed that he will be
blessed with a son on Monday 24-11-1969 at 2 A.M.

As predicted, the querist informed me on 29-11-1969 that he
was blessed with a son on 24-11-1969 at 2 A.M.

SECOND DELIVERY

As regards child birth etc., it is advisable to scrutinize the
mother's chart to get correct results. So let me take the horoscope of
the mother:

Born at 6-28 P.M. on 10-7-1931 at 25-14 N and 84-11E.

Horoscope is as follows: —

Ven 8°16'
Rahu 16°42' | IV 5°22' VII 20°46'
I 2°22' Moon 22°21) V 2°22" 0361
VI 26°22! Sun 24 36
Merc. 6°36'
Jup. 6°40'
VIII 25°32"
TI 25°32! Mars 23°56'
Sat. 27°21" | X11 26°22« | x 5°22" x 2e22
Asc. 20°46 XI 2°22« Kethu
16°42«

Balance of Venus dasa at birth -6 years 5 months 23 days.
=== PAGE 0246 ===
242

The second issue was born on 16-11-1952 At that time
Moon Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra was running,

All people having Saturn or Rahu or Ketu in | or 5 need not
lose the first offspring. But, note the sublord of the nodes or Saturn
in the Ascendant. If the sublord is the occupant or owner of 1, 4 or
10th house, then the first issue is short-lived or the first conception
is abortive or short-lived. Prof. also explained how to find out
whether it is abortive or still born or short lived. He has shown that
if the conjoined period of the significators of the houses 6, 11 and
Bhadakasthana operate during the intra-uterine period, then it will
be abortive, if the conjoined period operates just before the delivery,
it is still born. If it coincides immediately after delivery, infantile
mortality: whenever they operate at that time the death of the first
issue.

In this horoscope of the mother, Ascendant is at the 20°-46' in
Sagittarius. Saturn is in the Ascendant at 27°-21' in Sun's star Moon
sub. Moon is occupying 4th house which is twelve to 5. Therefore,
the first conception was disappointing.

For second conception judge the houses 2, 5, 7 and 11. 7th is
the 3rd from Sth : 3rd is the younger child : i.e. next conception by
mother-

Second house is vacant. Saturn, lord of 2, has Mercury and
Jupiter in its constellation.

5th house is unoccupied. Venus the lord of 5, has Moon and
Mars in its star.

7th house is occupied ; Sun, Mercury and Jupiter are in 7th
house : Saturn is in Sun's star. Rahu in Mercury Star; Sun in Jupiter
star.

Mars is lord of 11 : None in its star.

Hence those planets connected with houses 2, 5, 7 and
11 are Mercury, Jupiter, Moon, Mars, Saturn and Sun.

Now, find out the sub occupied by the Significators,
especially those connected with 7th.
=== PAGE 0247 ===
243

It will be Found that Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus are
strong, beneficial and fruitful. Hence the mother had a child born in
Moon Dasa. Venus Bukthi, Jupiter Anthra, Mars Shookshma.

The child's chart is as follows :

Jup. 21°42"

Kethu 23°24'
Asc, 27°7'
Rahu 23°24'
°56' | Merc. 22°29'
Venus 7°56 ere Moon 21°10'
Sat. 29°11'

Mars 3°02' Sun 1°6'

Transit: Moon was in Venus sign Jupiter sub.

_Venus was in Jupiter sign Ketu star Jupiter sub
_Jupiter was in Venus star Jupiter sub Mars in Sun sub.
_Ascendant was in Moon Sign Mercury star Jupiter sub.

Thus every point agrees and K P. is found to be very
correct.

WHAT IS WHONG WITH MY CHILD?

Three friends entered my house. One of them wanted to have
some information regarding the sickness of his child. They wanted
to meet me earlier and several times they tried to fix an
appointment but failed. At last, today they succeeded.

It was a Wednesday. 21-1-1970 and it was 7-0 P.M. ,
C.S.T. at Matale. CEYLON (79E37' _7.28N)
=== PAGE 0248 ===
244

"Now, Sir, please mention a number between | and 249 on
behalf of your child."

"Let 39 be the number."

"By 139, it is meant that Thula lagna 20°-00'-00" rises
and the map of heavens is as follows" :

IX 17°13'
VI. 20°14! Sat 9°01 VIII 19°13"
Mars 4°14« VII 20°00' Moon 27°32'
Rahu
20°53! xX 17°13'
V 18°13'
Mr. N.
IV 17°13'
Sun 7°48' XI 18°13'
Ven. 7°01' Kethu 20°53'
Merc. (R) Lagna 20°0'
21°15' II 19°13' Jup. 11°19" VII 20°14'

Il 17°13"

Moon rules "Mind". Moon and aspects to Moon indicate
the nature of the query, the cause of his worry, etc.

Moon is in 3rd sign of the Zodiac Gemini in the constellation of
Jupiter, lord of 12th sign. It is aspected by the lord of 3rd and 6th
signs, Mercury, further the querist mentioned that he wanted to
know something about the sickness of his child. Mercury rules air
and aspects its own sign and Moon sign. Hence it may be upper
chest or ear.

How to pitch up further ?

Follow the aspects. Saturn denotes cold or ice. It aspects Moon.
Hence there is Phlegm. The sickness cannot be about ear. Mars
denotes iron or red cells or Red Blood Cells. Mars aspects Moon.
Hence there is predominance due to R.B.C. Generally the R.B.C.
never exceeds its limit. Always the variation is due to White Blood
Corpuscles. R.B.C. will
=== PAGE 0249 ===
245

appear to be predominant when W.B.C. is below the normal limit.
When the percentage of W.B.C. is less, the disease sets in, as
W.B.C. is essential for body resistance. Hence all these factors
show that your child is suffering from respiratory disease.

Now Thula lagna rises. Its ruler is Venus. It is in 3rd house
with Mercury. 6th house denotes disease, while 12th house shows
the defects.

Hence the sickness will manifest during the period of the
significators of 6th. It is true, all the significators of 6, cannot
cause disease unless the same is also the significator of first
house denoting the child or person concerned.

Even if the significators of 6th are also significators of first
house, it does not mean that the disease requires treatment or
hospitalisation. In this case, not much attention or treatment is
needed. Mere home treatment or preventive measure are
sufficient.

When the common significators of 6 and 1 are significators
of 12, then the child requires isolation, clinical examination,
hospitalisation or hospital treatment etc.

At present, according to this horary chart, Jupiter Dasa, Venus
Bukthi, Rahu Anthra is running and as these are connected with
houses 6, 1 and 12; it is inevitable and the child had to undergo
clinical examination and hospital treatment.

"Excuse me to interrupt you, Sir, you had mentioned that it
was a respiratory disease . but will it be possible for you to pin-point
the exact disease, as there are so many diseases under this
classification of respiratory diseases."

"Well, it is not impossible to such an extent. Let us try
and see.

For the nature of the disease, consider the Cusp. It is at 20°-14"
Meena. That is in Mercury star Venus sub. Mercury is in a fiery sign
and in 3rd house aspected by Moon. Mercury retrogrades, hence it is
temporary. Due to the aspect of cold planet Moon, the child will feel
the humidity of air being more and heavy and lacks easy breathing.
=== PAGE 0250 ===
246

Venus is with Sun, in an earthy sign of Saturn, aspected by
cool planet Saturn producing phlegm. Further Venus is in the
constellation of Sun aspected by Saturn (which is in the
constellation of Kethu, representing Sun). The phlegm produced
cannot be Spit out, as it will be dry. The presence of Sun will
produce dryness of throat, On clinical examination, it will be
noticed that there will be an abnormal increase in the count of
Eosinophils (white blood cells). Aspects of Saturn will definitely
produce difficulty in normal breathing due to phlegm as Saturn
obstructs normal functions. Hence the child is suffering from
Bronchial Asthma or Bronchitis.

"Will there be an immediate recovery ?"
"For recovery, judge the 11th cusp.”
"It is in Sun sign Venus star Rahu sub."

Rahu is in 5th. Rahu acts as an agent of Saturn in 6. Hence
there will be no complete and permanent cure. Appearance and
disappearance will alternatively be there. Now you will notice an
immediate temporary relief on or after 25-1-1970, as Mercury
becomes direct on 24-1-'70.

The querist was satisfied with the prediction and thanked me
for this candid prediction through Krishnamurti Padhdhati

YOUR SON IS NOT ROBERT CLIVE

"Sir, I have a son. Very naughty fellow, very bad chap. I do
not know what to do with him. He is a problem. Please advice me.
Some say that Robert Clive in his youth was mischievous: but
later, he had wonderful career."

"Have you got the chart of your son ?”
"Here it is, Sir.”

"Dear friend, God sends children for many many
purposes."

They are God's apostles sent forth daily to preach love, hope
and peace. It is not only to keep up race they are born : it is also to
enlarge our hearts and make us unselfish, as well as full of
sympathies and affections. You should not allow
=== PAGE 0251 ===
247

them to have their own way but at the same time, you should
not thwart them. If during childhood of your children, you feel that
it is a headache to rebuke them and correct them, then when they
grow up they will cause heartache to you. Children will, no doubt,
commit mistakes; then and there they should be informed about the
mistakes. They become wise, out of these mistakes and proper
advice. We should think that boy of today will be the man of
tomorrow and regular training is absolutely necessary. Therefore,
every child must be made to repent for his mistakes. We should be
careful. They should not be allowed to observe any of our defects as
they are very shrewd observers and they will follow our footsteps.
Hence with patience and great care, we should bring up children.
The above advice is for all.

Your son's chart is as follows.

II 11-45
Lagna 17-28
x12-43 | XI19-43 Kethu 13-55
Ill 4-45
X 0-45 1-12-1954 Jup. 6-29
5-26 P.M.
28-40N
Moon 22-42 77-24 E
Mars 4-53 IV 0-45

IX 4-45

t. 22-06
Rahu 13-55 VII 17-28 Sa

vill 11-45 | Sun 15-39 |Ven. 21-57 V 2-45
Merc. 2-35 VI 9-45

Moon Dasa balance 0 year 5 months 21 days.

Characteristic and innate nature are found out from the sub-
lord of the Ascendant. In a twin birth, one may be honest and the
other may be opportunist and dishonest. As long as all the planets
remain in the same position, in sign, star and sub and in the same
houses, the only factor which moves fast
=== PAGE 0252 ===
248

within the few minutes interval of the children birth, is only the
cusps of the houses. Hence we should develop the method by which
the sub lord is taken and the reading is offered.

The houses 6, 8 and 12 are evil. They spoil the matters
signified by the Ascendant.

If the lord of the sub of 1 is the significator of the first house,
one will try to maintain dignity and will put down any enimical
activity. The life will be long and also fortunate. Health will be
good. Harmony and happiness are promised.

If the sub-lord of 1 is the significator of the second house, one
will work hard for long number of hours and will be always after
making money. One will be benefitted through industrious
activities.

If the sub lord of | is the significator of the third house, there
will be much mental development, One will gain by frequent-short
journeys. Good relationship with kith, kin and neighbours. Though
there maybe delay in coming out successful, one will be going on
adding agencies.

If the sub lord of | is the significator of the 4th house, one will
be interested in lands, buildings, estates, conveyances, mines,
possession, furnitures, study, universities, etc. Good relationship
with mother.

If the sub-lord of 1 is the significator of the 5th house, one will
find delight in sports, music, opera, speculation etc. One will always
be anxious to bring up one's children in the right path.

If the sub-lord of | is the significator or the sixth house, one
will be having ill-health, one will be susceptible to diseases, one's
action will cause loss to others, one can come out victorious in one's
attempts and there will be disharmony.

if the sub-lord of | is the significator of the 7th house, one will
have good partners in life. Good understanding with wife and
partners. One will be fond of the other sex and try to be in their
midst. One will have litigation in his lifetime. Marital happiness is
promised.
=== PAGE 0253 ===
249

If the sub-lord of | is the significator of the 8th house, one will
have occult experiences and one's end will be unnatural. One meets
with accidents. Survival or succumbing to accident depends on tbe
period he runs. One gains through legacy but after great trouble.
Nothing can be gained smoothly. There will be a lot of obstacles
and hindrances.

If the sub-lord of the Ist is the significator of the 9th house, one
is always desirous of proceeding on long journey. One will be
religious. One will have higher studies. One can be successful in the
research. One can have prophetic dreams. There will be gain
through the relatives of one's wife, good relationship with them and
the native’s father,

If the sub-lord of 1 is the significator of the 10th house, one
earns name and fame. Grand success in all undertakings. Pleasure of
the superiors and those in power. One can rise to high social and
professional position. Easy acquisition of inheritance.

If the sub-lord of 1 is significator of 11, all success.
Many friends, smooth life, social and financial success.

If the sub-lord of 1 is the significator of 12th house, one has to
suffer from secret unhappiness, secret enemies, and entertain the
fear of imprisonment. One has to face misfortune. If the significator
of 12 is also the significator of 2, 6 and 11 one will make fortune in
a foreign place.

Thus it can be seen that the sub-lord of 1, if connected with 6th
house, the person will behave in such a way that whatever he does it
will be detrimental to all with whomsoever he moves, or he
transacts. Is the sub-lord is Mars, one will boldly and openly
commit crimes. If it were to be Saturn, he will commit crimes
without other's notice.

In your son's case, Saturn is in 6 and it is the sub-lord of the
lagna. Further it is conjoined with Venus, lord of lagna. It is in a
"Voice" sign. So he may at this age call girl students by name
following behind them, and do such a mischief."

"Yes, Sir, this Is one of the complaints I have or
received from the parents of girls."
=== PAGE 0254 ===
250

Saturn conjoined with Venus indicates that be can knock
away Other's footwear, chapals, etc.

"It is also true. He finds pleasure in going to music concerts
with his one of the old chapals ; he attends the concert at my
expenses and a few minutes before the concert is over he leaves the
hall first; invariably he puts on a new one left there by somebody
and he returns home. How did you predict chapals, Sir ?"

"Saturn and Venus are in 12 to 7. Seventh house shows others
who participate in the music. 12th house is foot, Saturn and Venus
indicate skin, hides and so leather chapals. Both of them are in the
constellation of Jupiter in 3. Third house is for walking ; third house
is assistance. I said further be will be capable of copying others or
sign like others. He will not hesitate to sign your own signature in
his progress report."

"Do you know my son? Have you heard of anything
about my son, Sir"

“Why?”

"As though you are one of the members of our family,
knowing his mischief, you are mentioning one after another and
all are true. Now, Sir, I want to know whether he will improve
or he will continue to be so ".

"For this one is to find out which dasa will run in the
future. If the lords of the dasas are beneficial, even though he
may have such innate nature, he will not have opportunity to
commit crimes. If the dasas are evil, he can never improve. But he
is to run Jupiter and Saturn dasas, from his age 25 to bis age of 60.
Both Jupiter and Saturn are to spoil him by committing the crimes".

"Then what shall I do with the fellow? How is he to live?
What is the best job for him ?"

"Never put him in a4 bank, so that he has no chance to
handle cash. Never allow him to be a lecturer or a clerk in any
college. He will bring a bad name to himself and to another person
of opposite sex. Never put him in any commission business as he
will misappropriate the whole amount and will
=== PAGE 0255 ===
251

not remit to the head office. what is due to them deducting his
commission Never put him in any business, as he will deceive
partner and cheat the customers."

"Then what to do with this fellow ?”

“Let him work as the time-keeper in an industry and one to
take attendance etc. as Meridian is in Saturn sign (Labour;
Mars star Dhanishta (Industry) Mercury to inspect or to keep
accounts or to note down. The accounts unconnected with
money is only the time-keeper's post".

"Oh! God. Some people told me that such mischievous people
thrive well in their lifetime. But they did not so clearly mention the
nature of the mischief which he does as you enumerated".

“Mr, your son is not Robert Clive. Simply follow what
I told".

TRADITIONAL ASTROLOGY-MEANINGLESS

"Karako Bhava Nasaya" is the general threatening of a few.
They say that each planet is the chief governor for certain results.
So also, each house signifies certain results ; i.e., if the Bhava or the
house signifying a particular result is occupied by the particular
planet which governs the same result, then it will cause distress; e.g.
7th house denotes wife or husband. Venus is the Lord which is the
Karaka for wife. If Venus is in 7, it is said to he evil. What is your
finding"

Answer : Don't be carried away by any single statement. It will
be similar to the story of the blind men describing an elephant by
touching any part of it.

We give below the chart of a gentleman who has married a
beautiful and healthy lady and is leading a happy, harmonious and
prosperous life with her, even today.
=== PAGE 0256 ===
252
The chart is as follows:
Born on 31-1-1888,

Lagna
Venus in 7th Saturn
sign and 7th
Bhava Rahu
31-1-1888
Mercury
Sun Moon
Kethu
Venus Jupiter Mars

Also the chart of his son is furnished in which you may
note the position of Sun in 9 and both are hale and healthy.

Rahu Saturn
Lagna
Sun in 9th sign and
9th Bhava
Rasi
Mercury
Moon Jupiter Sun Kethu

Venus Mars

=== PAGE 0257 ===
253

The age of the son is 41 ; that of the father is 79 and that
of his mother is over 70.

There are many horoscopes of persons in which the Karaka
planet occupies the Bhava or house which also indicates the same
result and such an evil result was not even dreamt.

Explanation : Sun is the chief governor for father, Moon for
mother, Mars for brother, Mercury for education, Jupiter for finance
and children, Venus for wife, and Saturn for longevity etc.

9th house represents father; 4th house mother (in Hindu system,
Westerners differ; follow only Hindu. It will be proved why Hindu
alone, is correct.) 3rd house brother, 4th education, Sth children, 7th
wife, 8th longevity and so on.

Further, PAR ASA R A says

"Suryo Guru: Kuja: Somo
Guru Bhowma : Sitha : Sani;
Guruschandra Sutho Jeevo
Mandhascha Bhavakaraka;

In JATAKA PARIJATHAM, Yaidyanatha Dikshitar says

Dhywmanir Amara Manthri

Bhoosutha : Soma Sowmyo
Gururinathanayarow

Bhargao Bhanu Puthra ;
Dhinakara Thivijaeyyow

Jeeva Banugya Mancha:
Sura Gwourina soonu:

Karaka Syoorvilagnath

The Karakas of the Bhavas beginning with the Lagna are Sun
for the first house, Jupiter for the 2nd, Mars for the 3rd, Moon and
Mercury for the 4th ; Jupiter for the 5th, Saturn and Mars for the
6th, Venus for the 7th, Saturn for the 8th, Sun and Jupiter for the
9th, Jupiter, Sun, Mercury and Saturn for the 10th, Jupiter for the
11th and Saturn for the 12th.

MANTRESWARA in Phala Deepika says, “Dharmae
Suryaha Seetha Gur Bhandu Bhavac.
=== PAGE 0258 ===
254

Souryae Bhawmaba Pauchamae Dheva Mantrie Kamae
Sukrascha Ashtamae Bhanu Pathraha,

Kuryath thasya Klaesamith yahuranyac.”

The Sun in the 9th, Moon in the 4th, Mars in 3rd, Jupiter in the
5th, Venus in the 7th and Saturn in the 8th will cause distress to the
concerned houses or Bhavas. But Vaidya- natha Dikshitar says:

Kamavaneenanthana resiyatha :

Sithennthu puthra maravunthya manu ;
Arishtadhusthae kila Jathake$hu

Sad ha stamasye ; Samirishtadha ; Syath

Venus occupying the 7th, Mercury the 4th, Jupiter the Sth
house from the ascendant, are evil to all the births. But Saturn
in the 8th house from the Lagna will give desirable results. So
also in Bhavartha Rathnakara, Sri Ramanujacharya reiterates
those mentioned by Vaidyanatha Dikshitar in Jataka Parijatham.

One should not apply this rule strictly, and decide that
Karaka planets, occupying the same Karaka houses, are
harmful.

One has to read other chapters and note the results given by
various authors, and also the same sage or author for those planets
occupying the Karaka houses : i.e., he should read the results for
Sun in Lagna 9 and 10, Jupiter in 2, Mars in 3, Moon and Mercury
in 4, Jupiter in 5, Venus in 7 and so on.

Phaladheepika -Sun in the first house shows that the persons
will be valiant. Moon in the 4th house makes one happy and liberal
in gifts. He will have friends and vehicles (Vehicle is indicated by
the 4th house and Moon in 4 is said to be good to own conveyance.)

The person having Mercury in the 4th house will be learned,
witty in speech, happy, etc. He will possess lands, corn and
wealth. Jupiter in the 5th house shows that the persons will be
intelligent and be a minister. He will have good children and
also distress through children. Venus in the 7th house gives a
good wife and he may also have intrigues with bad women. He will
lose his wife and be wealthy If Saturn is in the 8th house
=== PAGE 0259 ===
255

he will be without wealth and will suffer from piles. In Jataka
Parijatham the author says that Saturn in 8 will invariably do good
to the native.

It is said that, if Sun should occupy the 9th house, he will lose
his father. (When ? Every one will lose his father early or late.)

Sun in the 10th house gives permanent position in the
Government etc.

Let us consider the following points ;

67 suppose a child is born and the mother, immediately
after delivery, passes away. Does the Moon invariably occupy the
4th house to the Lagna of the new baby ? No; in a majority of cases,
Moon is not in the 4th house.

2. It is not a fact that all men, having unafflicted Venus in
the 7th house, are lucky to have the most beautiful brides with
pleasing manners as their partners? Does Venus occupy only the 7th
house in the horoscopes of all those who suffer in their married life?
Is it not true that majority of the people having Venus—Sukra, in
the other 11 houses to their Lagna, pray for harmony and happiness
at home?

3. Are there not posthumous children and also many who
have lost their father in their infancy and youth, having Sun in
other houses except the ninth which is said to cause evil ?

4. Are there not horoscopes having Mars in the 3rd house
with many younger brothers and sisters ?

5. Are there not people born with Saturn in 8, living for a
long number of years. One of the patrons of the magazine
"Astrology and Athrishta" is born in Mesha Lagna with a group of
planets in 8, including Saturn in Scorpio, and is still alive (age is
now 64.)

When we take the horoscopes of all those who had Alpa Ayus,
i.e., Short life, we do not see Saturn in the 8th house in them- If one
refers to Uttara Kalamritham, translated by Sri V, Subramanya
Sastri, from pages 29 to 45, one will find 24 charts of short-lived
persons. Only in one, Saturn is in 8 an
=== PAGE 0260 ===
256

in the other 23 horoscopes, Saturn is found to occupy all the
other Bhavas.

Thus it will be seen that,

(a) People, having Mars in 3 alone, do not suffer through
brothers. Also there are many, having none younger to them,
with Mars in other houses and most of the people, having Mars
in other positions also, are the youngest children in their family.

(b) all children, born with Moon in the 4th house, have not lost
their mothers in their youth. Also, the mothers who passed away
immediately after delivery, have not given birth to children, having
Moon only in the 4th house from their Ascendant.

Thus, one cannot find much truth in this rule.
itKarako Bhava Nasaya"

It may be argued that people, having Mars in the 3rd house
may not see eye to eye with brother or sister.

Then the question arises whether they will be inimical to each
other from their birth, or whether they will have misunderstanding
or partition etc, when they attain majority or whether they will ever
be bitter enemies. So also, if there is to he distress through wife, for
some of those who have Venus in the 7th house, then is it from the
time of marriage or when they become very old.

Proper interpretation is as follows :

1. All evil planets in the 3rd house will spoil the third,
Bhava But Mars will be the strongest evil in the 3rd house, as
regards the health of the brother and relationship with himself, if it
is in the constellation of an evil planet. This will be experienced
during the period of Mars and in the periods of planets in the
constellation of Mars.

2. All malefics in the 4th house cause distress to mother
and through mother. This will be much pronounced, if Moon
is in 4, especially in the constellation of an evil planet. Moon
in 4 in the constellation of a benefic cause evil.

3. Jupiter in 5 does not totally deny children or cause
trouble through them. Malefics in 5 also give worries and
=== PAGE 0261 ===
257

similar difficulties. But Jupiter in the constellation of an evil planet
will surely do much harm, whereas in the constellation of a benefic,
it will give only most agreeable results.

Therefore, the Karaka planets, occupying the Karaka
houses, are generally stronger than other evil ones in the
respective houses only when they are in the constellation
planets who become evil by lordship.

But if one collects statistics to ascertain the time when one has
such evil results, one will surely find that these planets, only when
they are in the constellation of evil planets, cause distress during
their periods or sub-periods, or sub-sub-periods in other evil planet's
Dasa and Bhukti, e.g. difficulties to brother or through brother will
be during ‘A’ dasa, ‘B’ bhukti and Mars antara or 'A'dasa, Mars
bhukti, ‘B’ antara or during Mars dasa 'A' bhukti, 'B' antara.
Separation from wife or bereavement may be during, 'A' dasa ‘B’
bhukti, Venus antara or ‘B' Dasa, 'A' Bhukti, Venus antara or ‘A’
dasa Venus bhukti, 'B' antara, and so on.

Therefore, they will prove to be evil only during their periods
or sub periods if they are in the constellation of evil planets. Evil
result will be experienced in the periods of planets occupying the
star-nakshathra, of the Karaka planets in evil planet's constellation.

Further, it does not mean that the trouble is ever lasting
from birth to death. It is also not necessary that, whenever
there is trouble, these planet's dasa or bhukti or antara should
operate, other evil planets in those Bhavas, or in any manner
connected with the Karaka planets, will also cause distress in their
periods and sub-periods.

Planets in the constellation of the Karaka planets, occupying
the Karaka signs, will surely cause trouble. For example, in those
horoscopes, with Mars in the 3rd house, in evil planet's
constellation, if there are planets in any of the 3 constellations of
Mars, Mrigasirisha, Chitra or Dhanishta, they also will do harm
during the joint period of this planet and Mars.

If Jupiter is in 5 in the constellation of an evil planet, and if
there is another planet, in any one of the 3 stars of Jupiter,
=== PAGE 0262 ===
258

Punarvasu, Visakam or Poorattadhi this planet will do harm to
children in its period and sub period

If Venus is in 7 in the constellation of an evil planet, and
if any other planet occupies and one of the 3 stars. Bharani,
Poorvapalguni or Poorvashada, this planet will be undesirable
for the happy married life in its period.

Therefore—

"Even though Karakas may occupy respective Karaka signs,
note whether the lord of the constellation is a benefic or malefic. If
it is a benefic, expect only good results. If the lord of the
constellation is a malefic, then alone, the results will be
undesirable."

"What results the Karaka planets in Karaka signs indicate,
will be offered by those planets which occupy the constellation of
the Karaka planets."

DASA-SANDHI

What is meant by "Dasa Sandhi" ? Is it harmful ?

Answer: By 'dasa', one means Udu-dasa or Vimshottari
dasa. Udu Dasa Sandhi is the period when one major dasa ends and
the other dasa starts. fSandhi" means union. So dasa sandhi is the
time when one dasa ends and the other follows.

If such a dasa sandhi of a person coincides with the dasa sandhi
of the partner, husband or wife, a few astrologers threaten the
querists by saying that the dasa sandhi portends evil, without
considering any of the following points.

(1) If the dasa, which is to follow, ruled by a benefic or
a malefic 7

(2) Will one enjoy in the coming dasa or is he or she to face
difficulties ?

(3) If both the couple are to be fortunate after the evil
dasa ends, and the favourable one commences, what is
wrong in matching them for marriage ?

(4) Can anybody marry a bride or a bridegroom other
than what he or she is destined ? Is not the saying,
"Marriage is made in heaven true ?
=== PAGE 0263 ===
259

(5) If a couple are to suffer, say, till December 1967, and
they have to enjoy lucky time from the happy New
Year 1968, will the chart of one show fortune from 1968,
whereas the other denote continuation of misfortune ?
Should not the bad dasa come to an end to both, and the
good dasa start for them simultaneously.

(6) A couple, after marriage, were not fortunate to have a
child for some years. Later, just after dasa sandhi,
they bad a son born, as the new dasa which started,
promised birth of children. If there is not such a
change, in both the charts, how can they have the
child ?

Some astrologers say, "If the horoscope of the boy does not
promise progeny, match him with a bride who will have many
children or vice versa. Do they think for a minute; if the boy is
denied of a child, how can the bride have ? or if the bride should not
have even one child, how can the male have ? Is it not meaningless
or does it not mean something else ?

Such astrologers do not think deeply. They go only by
general statements and proverbs. Can astrology avert any event ?
Can one dodge fate by his will ? That which is to happen is sure
to take place.

There are innumerable instances and we have the horoscopes
of those people correctly cast.

1. If the lord of the dasa which is to follow happens to occupy
the constellation of the lord of the previous dasa, that is running,
there will not be any major changes in the events.

For example, a person serving in the military department from
his Mars Dasa, will continue to hold service in the same department
during Rahu Dasa, as Rahu was in Chitra star ruled by Mars. Neither
would he have suffered during Moon sub-period in Mars Dasa nor
in the sub-period or Rahu in Rahu Dasa.

One who entered in the Bank as a junior officer during Jupiter
Dasa, had a pleasant time during Rahu Bhukti in Jupiter Dasa, and
then had promotion and prosperity in Saturn Dasa, Saturn Bhukti.
Throughout Saturn Dasa he had good support
=== PAGE 0264 ===
260

and improvement in status. He had children born in Jupiter Dasa.
Saturn continued fot give as Saturn was in Punarvasu star ruled by
Jupiter.

Thus, it will be seen that the end of any Dasa need not be
universally harmful, and the beginning of another Dasa also
need not cause distress to all. Then astrology is made very
simple to predict easily that the beginning and the end of a Dasa
are bad and undesirable).

2. If the lord of the Dasa, that is to follow, owns a benefi-
cial house, occupies a favourable house as well as the constellation of
a benefic and is not afflicted, then the Dasa sandhi will be similar to
day-down when darkness will disappear, and there will be bright light.
The person will have a new cycle of prosperous life from the very
beginning of the Dasa.

3. if in the horoscopes of a couple, both are running a
brilliant dasa and an undesirable result is to follow, certainly both
will suffer. Both must face difficulties. Can any one prevent them
from getting married ? Not at all. Even if one says, that he had
avoided such a combination, and made a selection in which there is
no dasa sandhi in their life-time, it is only ignorance.

4. Majority of the people do not actually suffer in the end
of a dasa or in the beginning of another. But the sufferings in
the middle of the dasa is the worst and they have changes in
career in any one of the Bhuktis in the middle of the dasa,

(a) Verify from the people who have retired from service
and receive comparatively a small sum as pension.
Have they retired during dasa sandhi ?

(b) Take the horoscopes of those who lost their wives or
husbands. Did it happen during dasa sandhi ?

(c) Consider those who were unfortunate to lose their
children. Had they dasa sandhi then ? At least was it
at the dasa sandhi of either of the parents ?

(d) A man gets amputated leaves service and suffers a
lot ; when we scrutinise their cases, neither he nor his wife
had dasa sandhi.
=== PAGE 0265 ===
261

Therefore, are we not convinced that good and bad happen
when a dasa is running and the windfall or the pitfall to most of
the persons was neither in the end of a dasa, nor in the beginning
of the other ?

Therefore one need not worry about dasa sandhi at all.

Moon 18-01
Venus 2-9
Merc. 18-10
Mars 28-20
Kethu 24-26
Neptune
Uranus 24-20 22-49
17-5-1923
Thursday Lagna
12-56 P.M. Rahu 24-26

Jupiter 19-53 |Saturn 21-25

Lagna
Uranus Man Rahu
Moon
3-29 22-13 22-10 18-52
24-10-1926
7-20 PM.
Jupiter Neptune
4-45 3-53
Mercury
Kethu Saturn 28-30
18-52 2-39 Sun 7-40

Ven.0-39

=== PAGE 0266 ===
262

The above horoscopes belong to a couple, ever having same
dasa and also dasa sandhi. Both are enviable couple always
successful enjoying good life.

EKA-DASA

What is 'Eka-dasa' ? Why do a few astrologers consider it
as harmful ?

Answer: By Eka-dasa, they mean that both the husband
and the wife run a period ruled by the same planet. Here, the
name of the planet alone is the same,

1. As the Lagna of both the husband and the wife will be
different, the planet which governs the dasa will be the
owner of a different house.

Therefore, they are the significators of different results and
their effect will differ widely.

2. The lord of the dasa will be occupying different houses
when counted from Lagna or Moon sign ; thereby the
effect will be different, due to occupation.

3. The planets conjoined with the dasa lord or aspecting
the dasa lord will be different.

4. In their horoscopes, the planets may occupy different
constellations.

5. Thus, the results which are indicated by the dasa lord
will differ, even though the dasa lord is called by the
same name.

It is not correct to say that the bride and the groom
running the same dasa should not get married and if,
by chance, they get married, this Eka-dasa will prove
to be harmful.

The sages have declared that there will be satisfactory
agreement between the bride and the bridegroom if the husband's
star is the 9th or 18th or 27th counted from that of the bride (if 27th
star in the same rasi). If they get married, they will enjoy good
health for a long number of years.
=== PAGE 0267 ===
263

Let us take a few examples '.

A girl is born in Mrigasirisha star. The boy's star is Rohini.
Both have Moon in Taurus, Rishaba. The agreement is said to be
excellent for marriage, Let us work out the dasa. The girl has a
balance of 6 years of Mars dasa at birth ; the boy has 5 years of
Moon dasa. Therefore when the boy is 5 years old, Moon dasa ends;
Mars dasa commences. If another year passes, he has enjoyed one
year of Mars Dasa and there will be 6 more years of Mars dasa to
run. Now his wife is born with Mars dasa balance of 6 years.
Therefore they will be running Eka-dasa. How can it prove to be
evil, when the 9th star is considered to be the best and the rasi is the
same for both.

6 years after the birth of the boy, the girl is born. Though, for
both Moon is in the same signs, all the other planets and the Lagna
are in different sign. Therefore the results indicated by such planets
must be different ; mostly opposite and partly agreeing.

e.g. 1. The planet may show acquisition of costly jewels to
her. Should not the husband's chart show
deterioration of his bank position to that extent?

2. The husband may need money. Wife's jewels may be
pledged. Actually wife loses her possessions and the
husband's bank position improves.

3. The husband gets scholarship and goes overseas for
higher studies. The wife remains at home. Separation
is common to both.

4. Wife is admitted in the maternity home. The husband
visits the place, feels happy, distributes sweets and arranges a
party on the day when bis wife has given birth to a son. Pains
to wife and gains to husband will be the result of the dasa
though the name of the lord is the same.

A person may by nature be magnanimous. But by occupying a
position, he cannot show his nature, it is to be modified. He has to
give up his natural tendency and act according to the position. He
may have to be miserly and, without sympathy, he may have to
execute orders. Therefore occupation modifies and changes one's
nature.
=== PAGE 0268 ===
264

A person, by company gets improved or spoiled. So also, the
dasa lord by the conjunction of any other planet will give different
results.

Twins are born in the same lagna, with the same position
of the planets and dasa bhukti.

Do they not have the same dasa lord and the same Gochara-
Transit results? They do. But yet, are not the results different? The
name of the dasa lord is the same. Its lordship is the same. Its
occupation is also the same. Then, why so much of difference in the
results ?

Therefore this threat of Eka Dasa has no meaning. For most of
the people nothing untoward had happened, nor can it happen. A
few may suffer. It is not due to Eka Dasa, but because the lord of
the dasa is not beneficial for them.

Readers need not take into consideration any of the
threatenings of the astrologer, who rejects a horoscope by
mentioning "Eka Dasa or Dasa Sandhi".

Each horoscope has to be judged independently. Whatever is
found in the chart will alone come to pass. By marrying one having
Eka-Dasa or Dasa Sandhi, one will never alter the results indicated
by one's chart.

KNOW HOW TO LEAD A SUCCESSFUL LIFE

We want peace and pleasure; progress and prosperity.
How can we have them ?

All of us have some weakness or fault or defect in us. They are
bom in us. Never mind what they are ; never worry about them;
waste no time in learning them and correcting ourselves. Can
anybody have sound sleep having bug in the bed and lice in the
head. Do not we try to eradicate them? Similarly we should take all
measures to correct ourselves and cultivate desirable habits.
Otherwise look, how uncomely they appear in others. This advice
will be followed by one who is destined to lead a peaceful life.
=== PAGE 0269 ===
265

So one should to know one's weaknesses and what one should
do. The sign occupied by the lord of the constellation in which the
sub-lord of the Ascendant is situated will give the clue. Note who is
the lord of the sub in which the lagna falls. As a planet offers the
result of the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited, note in
which constellation, the sub-lord of theAscendant is tenanted. Then
find out in which sign the Lord of the constellation in which the
sub-lord of the Ascendant is. The characteristic of that sign is to be
understood and noting down the weakness one should improve.
Argument is that when twins are born within 10 minutes difference
and the lagna is in the same sign and in the same star which is it that
changes, except the sub in that star, This method is really surprising,
correct and useful.

1. If the sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation
of a planet in ARIES : —

You would change your views quite suddenly without any
consideration : at last you realise that such a change has not
done any benefit to you. Hence consider every matter deeply,
calmly and wisely. You will not relish others' suggestions. But
cultivate to take the advice of the wise and experienced persons who
proceed steadily in all matters. You will be dogmatic in religious
matters, You will be a fanatic and an extremist. This will create
many enemies and cause varieties of troubles. Whenever you meet
with opposition, you lose your temper. Use your militant nature and
abuse others. You will sweep aside every obstacle that confronts
your way without scrutinising the means you employ to get rid of it.
So give up that fighting tendency and be considerate. Whenever
there is litigation about your land or building or the boundary, try to
compromise. In married life, do not widen the gap, by repeatedly
finding fault with your partner for silly things and picking up
quarrels. So, have a control over your temper. Do not get elated
when someone talks high of you Consider why he talks so and judge
properly. Neither be extravagant nor impulsive. Suppose you do, as
you like, then you yourself will say that you had wasted a great deal
of time, energy and money. Do not you realise that hasty action
takes you by wrong route and the whole attempt
=== PAGE 0270 ===
266

was a waste? Hurriedly, only one thing which you can do, is to
catch flies, as the Russians say, So cultivate Patience, Perseverance
will follow. Prosperity will be the result. But if you never hear
others, how can you expect others to answer your call when you
need it. That is why, in politics, none can be a successful person for
a long term. Always you should have a long range policy. Follow
the above advice. Will you do ? Then you are the Leader.

2. If the sub-lord of your ascendant is in the constellation
of the planet in TAURUS : —

Your feelings will be extremely concentrated and they will
create many enemies - all undesirable. Further hatred and jealousy
will be the outcome. You are generally stubborn, rigid and reserved.
But there should be the occasions when you should relax also.
Always to be very stubborn will surely do you harm. People with
this position may be perverse also. It is not as bad as another bom
being very obstinate. You do not admit that you are a fatalist. But
you are always more or less a fatalist Do not be very selfish. You
are called selfish not for pursuing your own good but for neglecting
your neighbor. However virtuous you may be, the virtues will not
shine if you are selfish just as the sweet water in the river loses its
quality by emptying into blackish sea water. It is good that you do
not lose your temper quickly. But it is very bad of you when you are
vindictive, revengeful as you retain it for a long period. Even after
some years have passed, you can't forget. The sign TAURUS (Bull)
represents this also, 1.e., even after biting the grass once, it brings
back the cud (ruminates) and minces it again and reduces grass to
nothing. - Thus due to your slow, steady and solid attack, you do
much harm to your opponent. This is too much. You should
cultivate forgiving habit Without any pain and strain you want to do
everything easily, You never work hard and are never painstaking.
So, you meet with failure. At least necessary activity is essential.
Heavens will never help you, if you do not act. Be active, you will
be happy. Also do not be overcautious and _ exasperatingly
deliberate. Do not be fond of easiness and thereby develop laziness.
Sloths will smoother many virtues. When you develop
=== PAGE 0271 ===
267

such a habit and lead such a life for some years then you will find
when necessity for work arises that you are unfit and everything
will appear to be difficult. So cultivate industry ; everything will
become easy. So get up early; be active, cultivate to help others.
Forget others' faults and Forgive. You will he blessed with a
pleasant good life.

If the sub- lord of the ascendant is in the constellation of
the planet occupying GEMINI :—

You will be prone to speedy and thorough changes in your
point of view. You are deplorable lacking in persistence and also in
taking a quick decision in any matter. You will consider the pros
and cons, merits and demerits for such a long time that you miss the
bus. The father of a Gemini boy suggested his son to select one of
the three girls whom he had contacted. Before the Geminian could
take a decision, all the three girls got married and when this boy
wrote that he would prefer to marry one of them, he was surprised
to be informed by the other party that sorry, he was too late. You do
not have the deliberate determination to do any job stick to it till it is
completed. But none can do things more easily, gracefully and
successfully than yourself. So also none can be a better adviser than
you. When such is the case why should you take undue time to take
any decision in your personal matters. The other great defect in you
is that when once you have started to do any work, you are very
hasty and anxious to know the results then and there. Suppose you
have sown some seeds, you will irrigate, nurture and do all that is
needed. It is good. But your anxiety or curiosity would be to dig the
earth and note then and there, how far it has progressed. As you are
intelligent you always find out shortcuts to finish a job. You cannot
work in the same way as others do in their routine method. You
adopt improved methods to do it quickly. It is, no doubt,
advantageous. But you do not take rest; nor you take exercise. Your
health fails due to restlessness. So if you develop coherence,
steadiness, quick decision and patience to hear others without
resenting their suggestions and give up irritability, impatience, etc,,
then you will be the best intellectual to offer advice and to
successfully complete many projects, big or small.
=== PAGE 0272 ===
268

4. Ifthe sub-lord of the ascendant is deposited in the cons-
stellation of the planet situated in CANCER : —

You have the tendency to imagine slights think over and over
again about others failure in showing courtesy or respect to you. So
you have your feelings and get hurt easily. Ignore failures on others'
part. As you ponder over again and again before making any attempt
you miss many an opportunity like the Gemini occupants. Before
you decide which state Lottery ticket you can buy, that would have
already been drawn. If you will think and think and at last decide to
buy a raincoat and the day you buy, the season will end. Hence the
delay has not served you any purpose: within yourself you will feel
that your delayed action ended in a waste. You are completely ruled
by emotions and imagination. So it leads to a wandering and restless
life. Rolling stone never gathers moss. A stenographer applied for a
post. To prove his experience he had enclosed certificates received
from the departments where he had served previously. The number
of the companies he had served was much more than the number of
years of his service, on the whole. You may be moody, So you
waste your time, energy and talent. You always think of the future
and worry about money matters. You become old prematurely
because of such anxiety from youth. Take insurance policy and open
recurring deposit account in a bank. Avoid anxiety. It is a pity that
you are a constant prey to sentimentalism, sensationalism and
exaggerated emotion. So for days, you shun your friends and
relatives and again emerge out as usual. You have good memory.
You never forget the past. You can tell how you lived in a very
poverty-stricken condition in youth and how you built up by steady
savings, etc Again you will never forget any harm done to you by
anybody ; nor you have the mind to forgive. In the case of
SCORPIO occupants, they then and there retort and forget. But. Oh
God ! you will be going on pinching like a wicked mother-in-law.
Hence read this and improve yourself. God will grant you
FORTUNE.

5. Ifthe sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of a planet situated in LEO : —
-Your thirst for personal glory s unquenchable. Even though
you are absolutely unfit to hold a very responsible position
=== PAGE 0273 ===
269

with authority, you are over-ambitious and it is ridiculous. Can
everybody expect to marry a Princess? You will attack your enemies
when unguarded and that too from behind. Even though such a
tactics is good for a Military Officer, it is not good in civil life. You
should not pose yourself like a lion and attack others. Cultivate to be
modest and polite. Some authors view that Lion is not a warrior but
a fraud. You will show favoritism to some. It means you deny the
legitimate claim to the other. It is never honorable nor agreeable,
You do not consider both sides of the question. You do, as you
decide to do Whenever you are crossed you become controvert/
adverse. Just like SUN is always in direct motion and never
retrograde, so also you always go, on and on, and never look back.
You wrongly feel that those whom you had helped remain
ungrateful before they could show their gratitude. You are generally
over liberal. So you will be ever in want. Cultivate to cut the coat
according to the cloth. You hate mean petty actions and you expect
others also to follow your footsteps. Your type is ever in the
minority in this world just like the lions among all animals. You
become bitter, suspicious and over critical as you find that you had
been deceived. Otherwise you are proud ; you presume much of
self-importance, and gradually become arrogant. Hence other
reasonable people view this with contempt. You are over-
ambitious ; you have your own fears whether you would be
overlooked ; so, you forcibly make your presence felt. You try to
develop the mind to love one and all, universally and judge things
impartially. Avoid forcing conclusions at your own risk. Do not
spend away all that you have and all that you get. Manage to
maintain a comfortable-sized bank position. Try to have an
attractive home. Then you are the KING, THE UNCROWNED
KING.

6. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of a planet in VIRGO:

Your nature is to be chatty. You will be analytical and during
conversation, you generally give disgustingly lengthy description,
including all meticulous detail which will be boring to others. You
keenly observe other's faults and idiosyncrasies and you find
pleasure in passing your remarks. You cannot be at rest till such
time the criticism is passed by you. Members
=== PAGE 0274 ===
270

of your family will never relish. You should not have nervousness
and self-doubt. You are intelligent. You quickly perceive. Yet you
need steadiness in going after what you want. Remember, you can
achieve your goal only when you avoid change of tactics, now and
then whenever needed. Try to complete one work and then take up
the other. Your bad habit of consulting everybody and confusing
yourself should be given up. Therefore, you should consult only
one doctor, only one Astrologer and so on. Otherwise you will be
confused, Develop true consistency of purpose Forget and forgive
others' faults. In married life, unless great care is taken to avoid
the failings of your type, there is always the danger of
matrimonial shipwreck. You care more for money and hence you
will be absorbed in your business. You always think of it, work
very hard and return home very late and no next morning very
early which creates an impression in your wife's mind that you are
indifferent; hence your partner looks outside for sympathy and
company. So if you continue to live a strongly personal life, it will
lead to selfishness and at the same time another walk of life will
get shattered. You care more for smaller details, whereas you lose
big items. Do not neglect hygiene. You need much relaxation.
Prefer walking or swimming. If not, keep the company of books
which you may relish. Do not waste your energy. Try to encash
the same. No man in this world is perfect. So you congratulate
yourself for your good qualities and note down your weaknesses.
Correct yourself by avoiding the undesirable qualities and your lot
will definitely improve.

7. If the sub-Iord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of a planet in LIBRA :

YOU HAVE TO KEEP YOUR EMOTIONS IN CHECK. You
should not allow things to get out of your hands. You should not
appoint persons of opposite sex as your private secretaries. You will
be wasting much of your time. You generally mix business and your
pleasure. This will prove to be harmful in the long run. You have a
fertile brain; many ideas will flash in your mind and they spring up
one after another quickly. Therefore, you should try to take quick
decision then and there and act. It is your habit to observe how
others dress : also you note the mannerisms of
=== PAGE 0275 ===
271

others. You try to copy them and waste a lot; it is advisable to know
your ability and so to have a limit. You are generally unassuming
and simple. Therefore, clever people will take advantage of your
innocence and try to fool you. So, you have to consider carefully
and make the best choices of the associates. You should deal with
them carefully because you have broad outlook and even when you
find them to be wrong, you forgive and forget the faults of such
people; they may act against your interest: you can come to know of
it and forgive them; but don't forget their action. You should know
what harm is done by a person and how he had misbehaved,
understand that individual cannot be relied upon. You also believe
that every new occasion demands a new dress and therefore, you
will spend much more than what you can afford on cosmetics and
perfumes. You should know that God has given you enough charm.
A little of the makeup may do but you do not require so much as
you use. You waste money on that score. You have to be very
careful with the other sex as you are gentle, soft and weak with the
opposite sex ; if you remain for a long period unmarried and if you
live in a hostel or away from your home for some length of time,
then you will be tamed by an unscrupulous person of opposite sex
who has the desire to dominate and possess you. In case of a woman
the peril is graver. Therefore, try to avoid the company of the other
sex. You may have appendicitis or uterus trouble ; kidney may be
affected. To maintain good health it is necessary for you to take rest
and retire whenever you fee like that; have balanced diet, keep
yourself cheerful, be happy, enjoy life by listening to light music.

8. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of a planet is SCORPIO:

You generally over-estimate yourself and thereby invite
trouble. You do not care for others' opinion or how others would
receive your criticism. So better have a control and do not pass any
sarcastic remark. You wrongly expect that everybody should be as
intelligent as you are. And, therefore, there will be dissatisfaction
and irritation. So do not expect all your subordinates to be either as
clever or as hardworking as you are. Don't be over critical; they will
feel dejected. So, whenever
=== PAGE 0276 ===
272

there are occasions for you to lose you temper, try to overcome
them. Whenever you move with ladies be a little careful; try to
avoid the secret enmity of the other sex. Don't stop to foul play or
wrong accounting or any other unlawful action. Even if you have to
lose, allow the loss ; if you wait for sometime you can regain, all
that lost by you. For that purpose, do not adopt any unfair means.
Do not cultivate the habit of drinking, otherwise you would require
a swimming pool of the intoxicating drinks. As you do everything
with energy and might, if you are bad, you are really very bad and
there is no mistaking about it. Your courage never fails, your will is
ever strong and your patience is many fold stronger than those of
others. Don't make shipwreck of your life, developing into that of a
reckless insatiable drinker or heartless profligate/ dissolute. If you
are a doctor, generally you give strong dose of medicine weakening
the patient«s heart while dosing bim for rheumatism and also you
ruin his digestion. So always try to give the minimum dose to your
patients. Whenever your health fails, you have to strictly follow the
instructions of your medical attendant. Whenever you suffer from
dysentry etc, you generally take hot stuff with much chilly, pickles
etc. You must avoid. In your office, you must avoid mixing with
people who advocate to go on strike. If you take any part in it, then
you will lead them. Naturally, you will become a social fire-brand
and a dangerous person in the eyes of the community. When thorns
are removed, what is it that remains? Roses. So also, understand that
if you exercise with care and if you are polite, you can enjoy all the
fruits of life in this world.

9. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of the planet in SAGITTARIUS :

Generally you are inherently selfish and inconsiderate. You
may lack loyalty and sympathy. You easily forget the good done to
you in the past by others. You may do anything to please yourself
which may be undesirable and you do not care for your prestige or
honour, yet, the faults of your type are not serious. They are flimsy
and hence easily pardonable. You will be excused you do not forget
and leave it. You continue to feel jealous and remain vindictive.
You are absolutely incapable of uttering a lie congently-forcefully
and coherently or cheat
=== PAGE 0277 ===
273

anybody successfully. You will have no face to meet them again,
since you will be caught during your attempts. Otherwise, whenever
you talk, you go tangentially and also during the conversation
introduce needless extraneous matter which will bore others. Lack
of purpose, shallowness, lack of ability to concentrate are your
weaknesses. You waste a lot not realising that it is a great sin. You
ever waste your energy, your money and also your materials. You
go round and round a circle without serving any purpose. You are
very courageous and you act; you feel satisfied if the result follows
your own boasting. If you are unable to fulfill, if there is opposition,
you lose your temper. You have vanity. You do not accept failure.
You do not enjoy that much which you can because of your hasty
actions. You may be indifferent to your family life. You do not
attend upon them property. You create such an impression that you
forget to do your duty. It is also not uncommon to commit a blunder
while selecting a partner. You are in a haste while settling the
marriage and later and in leisure and in solitude, you repent. Why ?
You could have gone slow, have some persons, in view, observe
them before taking a decision and then select the best out of the lot
which it is your lot. You may say "Hanging and wiving go by
destiny." Let it be; you try to improve and make your honest
attempts to avoid troubles in future. As regards health, you have to
take care of your pulmonary system. Bronchitis is your common
disease. Do not expose to severe cold. Do not give much of over-
activity to your mind and body. There should be a limit in having
exercise also. Read the above carefully. Correct yourself property.
Never be in a hurry. Then no more worry. Be ever merry.

10. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation
of the planet In CAPRICORN :

You are over ambitious both to make money and also to
acquire power. You assert yourself in your work where you serve
and you always think of yourself alone. You are not unaware of
your worth and your capacity. You are efficient but a realistic ; you
are very selfish especially in search of power. You contemplate,
dream and you make efforts entertaining hopes. You live on hopes,
you are mostly optimistic. But you become desperate and broken-
hearted, whenever you
=== PAGE 0278 ===
274

meet with failure and when there is undue delay in the realisation of
your ambitions ; so it leads you to overwork and exert too much.
Your health will not permit so much of strain. Further mentally also
you always contemplate, meditate and tax yourself very much. Due
to overstrain you will feel fatigued. You should develop dignity and
diplomacy and avoid nervousness and discontent. You have an
intense desire to influence others, to manage them, direct them and
also persuade them. You meddle with others in one way or the
other, This causes irritation in your friends and also in your close
relatives. You must learn to understand and control yourself. As
regards to sex, you are incorrigible. You should know that you will
have your best period between your age of 56 and 70, therefore, you
have to be working without much expectation in your early days
and ultimately you will find that your patience has paid you amply
in the end. You may become lazy, sluggish, due to the poor results
you have in earlier days; but cultivate activity. Never be worried
and be gloomy ; otherwise digestive system will become weak and
flatulence may be caused. Your health is also so fragile and weak
that very easily you are upset by pulmonary affection also. It is also
not uncommon that people working with much of anxiety and over-
strain at last suffer from heart disease. None has gained anything by
merely worrying. Be active. Do not be selfish. You will have Grand
Success in your life.

11. If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation
of the planet in AQUARIUS :

You always prefer solitude; generally you do not relish to be in
the midst of a crowd nor work in the midst of a group of workers
where there is much noise. You try to be lonely but you should
know that you would become lazy and lethargic when you are left
alone. You should cultivate activity and promptness especially
when things do not shape as you expect. What is the use of getting
worried or feeling gloomy. Do not be a pessimist; but you have to
repeat the process with greater earnestness when you will surely be
successful. You should never lack in the push nor in the courage.
Be alert, have confidence and work with pleasure. You may not
follow the tradition ; you may act in a way which indicates that the
laws
=== PAGE 0279 ===
275

are not intended for you. You will not hesitate to do any unusual
and irregular things. Even in dress you are a peculiar person. You
have your own individuality and mannerism. You should know that
we have to live in a world where we have to keep up with certain
standard and we have to be one in the society. On some occasions,
you have the tendency to vascilate and thereby take long time to do
a thing since you cannot come to a decision before judging the
advantage and disadvantage of anything that you have to undertake
or do. You may have sluggish circulation of blood, manifesting in
cold hands and feet. The best remedy would be to have fresh air and
good friendship. It is advisable to walk amidst beautiful scenery
with a pleasant companion. Do not be contemplating and planning
over and over again ; give rest to the mind and to the body.

Then pleasant life is promised.

12. If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation
of the planet in PISCES.

You have a very bad tendency of brooding over things
(worrying) and becoming gloomy whenever matters don't come up
as you expect All can't have artesian wells. You have to exert your-
self, pump and get water. You also mistake that to whomsoever you
have rendered help, they have not reciprocated to you properly in
time. Therefore, whatever you want to do for the people, do it
without any thought of reward of gratitude. You are sensitive, timid
and afraid of any trouble. There is also another defect in you ; you
approach friends, one after another, for advice ; but later, you do not
make use of any of the advices offered to you; you pay no attention
to it. It is really, very bad. You try to gain sympathy from others by
narrating your series of troubles. This ultimately weakens your
position. You are aware that you are moody. So what is the use of
worrying for sometime and becoming normal again. Never belittle
yourself nor be slow in your action; gather courage; have
confidence, be pushy; be generous; you need not be over-liberal ;
don't entertain hopes on other's promises, as some of them may be
fulfilled, whereas others may be found to fake promises. Don't be
building castles in the air. You should
=== PAGE 0280 ===
276

also realise that it is really very difficult for your partner to
understand you and equally difficult to cope up with you. Have a
control upon your romantic life Otherwise like a rudderless boat,
you will be drifted on into the sea of sensual pleasures. Every wind
which blows; will bring you new experiences to spoil you more and
more. You will be very sensitive to the influence of alcohol, Your
health will be weak, and muscular power deficient. Pay attention to
cleanliness of your person, habitation and clothing. Try to have
plenty of fresh air and sunshine. These will react favourably on the
emotional and mental plane. A simple vegetarian diet is often
advisable. Include cereals and fruit. You may develop your psychic
power. You will enjoy your life with good health having large
number of friends. Peace and pleasure be unto you.

WHICH GEM CAN I USE?

Gems look like fragments of Heaven. They are beautiful,
costly and attractive. Their colour penetrate deeply like the
perfumeries. Some believe that by using the gem, the disclosed
knowledge is gained by divine grace or supernatural agency. Some
believe that one can dodge fate by using them. Such a superstition
or belief was transmitted to us from times immemorial. Thousands
of years ago Aaron, the Priest of Israel used to put on a breast plate
in which 12 different gems are set and these 12 gems are assigned
to the 12 signs of the zodiac, the pathway of the planets in the
Heavens. Nowadays most of the people use the gems mainly on two
reasons. It is beautiful and during the time of emergency it can fetch
currency. Only some use that particular Gem which will suit him or
her so that they can have peace, pleasure, prosperity and success.
The fact is that the planets radiate different colours. Each stone is
sympathetic to the nature and vibrations of each planet.

Agate pleases God; confers wisdom and eloquence; safe-
guards from deception; strengthens the heart, cures fever, scorpion
bites and snake-bites. Removes obstacles in receiving the legitimate
inheritances. AMETHYST is a preventive for the evil results of
devils and ghosts. If one keeps this gem in the water and drinks one
will be cured from sterility. If one
=== PAGE 0281 ===
277

drinks intoxicating one's and spoils his or her health, by using
amethyst one will have his thoughts subdued and gradually give
up drinks. Health improves. Warriors become calm and act
wisely even during danger.

Aqamarine: It is a very rare gem. It is considered to be
a pure one and it was generally given to the girls at the time of
their wedding with the belief that both of them can lead a happy
and harmonious wedded life. Some believe that Aquamarine
prevents one from suffering from the throat, liver and stomach.
Musicians, wise people and those who lack courage, can have
advantage by using Aquamarine.

Beryl: Keep it in water and drink ; mutual affection will be
increasing.

Coral: It gives one courage, success in litigation, cure from
epidemic disease. It is a preventive for the evil effects of devils
and ghosts ; it protects one from lightening and thunder.

Diamond: No doubt a costly one; It makes the wearer purer
and more virtuous. It repeals poison, gives firm mind and
promises pleasant family life. If a lady puts it round her neck,
safe delivery is assured. Diamond also adds beauty to tbe
person and protects the wearer from many diseases.

Emerald: is used by chaste people. It improves one's
memory, retentive power and reproductive ability. Some believe in
grinding emerald to powder and give it as a curative measure for the
bites of venomous animals. Some administer it for dysentery,
hysteria, and epilepsy. Some believe that one can discover any evil,
as emerald will lose its brilliance, if there is deception and
treachery. Emerald is best suited for those who undertake higher
studies, overseas travel and foreign trade. It increases domestic
happiness.

Garmet: It is believed that this gem protects one from poison
and plague. It contributes for health and peace. It saves one
from lightening. There is also this danger in garnet. If a
person is not entitled by his birth sign to put garnet, it will bring
misfortune. But if a proper person uses it, cures ulcer and
inflammation. It improves the business, increases the income
and adds reputation as well as popularity. It is suspicious for
=== PAGE 0282 ===
278

the married couple. One can be successful in his dealings with
the Government.

Opal : is generally used by astrologers and such of those who
want the power of foresight to enable one to predict, It also improves
one's ambition. It is helpful to form permanent tie of friendship. It
adds happiness to the married couple. Mediated to settle any dispute
will find success by using this gem. One can win in litigation and
give fresh life to the business. The brilliance of opal if effected by
whether and by humidity whenever it is brilliant and very bright, it is
sure that the wearer comes by good fortune.

Pearl: Pearl is useful to preserve chastity by wearing it
round the neck.

Perth: (yellow colour). If a person holds it firmly in his
hand it will burn the hand. It is useful to cure gout.

Ruby : It is good for gathering courage and banishing gloom as
long as it is bright. It will attract friends and offer good fortune. If
the luster is gone, misfortune will follow. Ruby drives out dirty
thoughts, give the mind to control passion, allows one to preserve
health. It brings good cheer. It helps to form good friendship and
also have permanent love.

Sapphire : It has deep religious significance. Even in olden days
it was in use and king Solomon had it set in his jewel. This is
dedicated to God. It is useful to maintain harmony and good
relationship among the partners. Saints and pious people who would
like to concentrate, meditate and pray to God wear it for the
realisation of their ambition on the spiritual side. So it is good for
fortune, peace and pleasure.

Sardonix : This gem is a carved one. In it some figure is
generally engraved. It protects one from poisonous animals, reptiles
and insects. It is used as a curative when one suffers from infectious
disease. This Gem will be useful to form new good friend, improve
self-control, etc. It is also used by Lawyers, Actors, Orators and
Educationists.

Topaz : Topaz is the island in the red sea. This gem was
first of all found here, it works as a talisman to cure various diseases
including mental derangement, hysteria, madness, suicidal tendency
etc. One becomes sane generous and wealthy. It
=== PAGE 0283 ===
279

is also used in the necklace or on tbe left arm. One becomes more
brilliant and intelligent and leads a peaceful pleasant and contented
life- Dreams also will be pleasant. There will be real attachment
between husband and wife and each will be faithful to the other

Turquoise : The meaning of this word is Turkish. It was
originally found in Turkey and taken to Europe, later. This is very
powerful in curing headache and reducing inimical activity. This
gem will also change its colour if either the health of the person who
used it or his life is in danger. As soon as the health is cured and the
danger comes to an end this Gem regains its original colour. It
makes one generous, magnanimous, liberal, dutiful, honest and be a
Jupitarian.

Which of the Gems can 1 use ? Note the sub-lord of the
ascendant and that of the 11 th cusp. Note which houses are
signified by them. If they are not at all connected in any manner
with 6 or 8 or 12 then use that colour or that Gem which is indicated
by the sub-lord of 1 or 11 or both. If the sub-lord of the ascendant or
the 11th cusp happens to be the significator of 6 or 8 or 12. reject
the colour indicated by such a sub-lord. Similarly one has to make
selection of the colour and also the metal.

If such a minute calculation could not be done then one can
note the sign in which the ascendant has fallen and one can make
his selection according to the Gems suitable for each sign as
given below :

Aries Amethyst, Diamond
Taurus Emerald

Gemini Aquamarine, Agate
Cancer Ruby

Leo Ruby (Diamond) Sardonix
Virgo Sapphire

Libra Opal, Diamond

Scorpio Topaz

Sagittarius Turquoise

Capricorn Garnet

Aquarius Sapphire, Amethyst
Pisces Aquamarine
=== PAGE 0284 ===
280

If one knows which planet is favourable to him then accord-
ing to the nature of the planet he can use that Gem which Is
mentioned below:

Sun Ruby
Moon Pearl
Mars Coral
Mercury Emerald
Jupiter Topaz
Venus Diamond
Saturs Sapphire
Rahu & Kethu- Agate or Turquoise
Sun Orange or dark red metal. Gold
Moon White, Silvery Silver
Mercury Slate colour Green Quick-Silver
Venus Yellow, Pale blue, neither

white nor black metal Copper
Mars Deep Red, iron
Jupiter Purple, Violet, blue, white Tin
Saturn Brown, indigo, black, Lead

Rahu and Kethu mixed colour.

The metal which is considered to be governed by
each planet is as follows :

Sun Gold and Copper
Moon Silver

Mars Copper

Mercury Quick Silver
Venus Silver and Copper
Jupiter Tin

Saturn Lead

Rahu and Alloy
Kethu
